Eddard'Ned' Info, Eddard "Ned" Stark was the Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, and briefly served as Hand of the King to Robert Baratheon. While other lords in the Seven Kingdoms often noted that Ned was cold and prickly, he is warm and loving to his family and friends. He is also respected throughout the realm as an admired lord who is dedicated to duty and honor. The only two of his children that inherited these features were Jon and Arya. The second son of Lord Rickard Stark, Ned was sent to the Vale as a young boy to be fostered by Lord Jon Arryn, and admired him as a father figure. Ned forged a lifelong friendship with Robert Baratheon who fell in love with his younger sister Lyanna. When his sister's abduction by Prince Rhaegar resulted in Ned's father and older brother Brandon being executed by Aerys II, Ned became Lord of Winterfell and married his brother's betrothed Catelyn Tully of Riverrun who conceived their first son Robb, on their wedding night. Joining Robert in his revenge-driven rebellion against the Targaryens, Ned battled the Kingsguard before finding a dying Lyanna, whose last words were, "Promise me Ned". Her words haunted him for the rest of his life. During this time he supposedly fathered Jon Snow with a woman he told Robert was named Wylla. In the war's aftermath, Ned brought Catelyn, Robb, and Jon back to Winterfell. In time, though Catelyn resented him for rearing Jon as a member of their family, Ned had a happy marriage with her as they gained four more children: Sansa, Arya, Brandon, and Rickon. After this war, the Greyjoys started a rebellion. In King's Landing, Ned is thrown into the world of courtly intrigue by two of the realms's greatest spies: Lords Petyr Baelish, also called "Littlefinger", and Varys, called "the Spider". He is spied upon by both of them, as well as Queen Cersei Lannister, as he pursues his inquiry into Arryn's death. Grand Maester Pycelle gives him a book that lists and describes the physical features of noblemen and women throughout the history of the realm. When Catelyn secretly arrives in the capital to meet with him about an assassin the Lannisters supposedly hired to kill Bran, Ned promises to find additional evidence against them for the crime. The two part on happy terms. Ned later receives a lead through Petyr Baelish that leads him to one of Robert's illegitimate children Gendry, and realizes that Arryn's death is part of a larger conspiracy. He briefly resigns his position when Robert insists on having Daenerys Targaryen, the last of the Targaryens, and her unborn child killed. Ned concludes that Robert's children (Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen) are illegitimate and were actually fathered by Jaime Lannister, Cersei's twin, and Cersei admits her affair with her brother. Ned intends to tell Robert; however, Robert is fatally wounded during a boar hunt. On his deathbed, Robert dictates his will to Ned, saying that Ned would be Regent while his "son" Joffrey is young. Ned actually writes "until his true heir" takes the throne. After Robert's death, Ned writes to Stannis, the eldest of Robert's younger brothers, telling him of Joffrey's illegitimacy and Stannis's own right to sit on the Iron Throne. Ned's correspondence is discovered and he openly declares Joffrey's illegitimacy before being arrested for treason. Though at first he refuses to take back his words (with the offer of exile to the Night's Watch), Varys reminds him that Sansa is held hostage and that Robb has gathered an army to fight the Lannisters. It is agreed that if Ned pleads guilty to all charges and declares Joffrey the rightful heir, Ned's life will be spared and he will be sent to the Wall as punishment. Unfortunately, at the Great Sept of Baelor, Joffrey goes back on his word and has Ned beheaded to make an example of him. All this effectively triggers the War of the Five Kings.
Catelyn Info, Lady Catelyn Stark, formerly of House Tully, was the wife of Lord Eddard Stark (Ned); mother to Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran, and Rickon Stark; daughter of Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun and sister to Lysa Arryn of the Vale. She is a POV character for twenty-five chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, and A Storm of Swords. Catelyn is proud, strong, kind, and generous. She is seen as honourable and upright by acquaintances, holding duty over desire as a governing principle of behaviour. Catelyn also has a strong grasp of politics and possesses considerable insight into what makes Westeros run. Nevertheless, Catelyn is also a fiercely protective woman and more often than not follows her heart rather than her head, especially when it comes to her family, whom she loves deeply. Catelyn describes her childhood as a happy one, where she was close to her sister, Lysa, and her father Hoster, a kind and just ruler of his domain in the Seven Kingdoms. Upon her twelfth birthday she was betrothed to Brandon Stark, the heir presumptive of Winterfell. However, despite her betrothal, her childhood friend Petyr Baelish was very attracted to Catelyn and except for Catelyn's intervention, might have been killed in a duel with Brandon. When Brandon's sister Lyanna was apparently kidnapped by Crown Prince Rhaegar, Brandon was murdered alongside his father at King's Landing by Aerys II. Catelyn married Brandon's brother, Eddard, in Brandon's stead in a double wedding ceremony at Riverun where her sister married Lord Jon Arryn. Catelyn became pregnant on her wedding night and birthed Robb while Ned was fighting in Robert's Rebellion. Ned returned a year later with his illegitimate child Jon Snow. Catelyn always resented Snow, and did not interact with him as a mother or step-mother figure. 
Robb Info, Robb Stark is the eldest child of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. While he does not have any POV chapters of his own, he is mentioned frequently by the Stark POVs in A Game of Thrones and regularly appears in his mother's POV chapters in the second and third books. As the first born child of Ned and fifteen years in age, he was already being groomed to take his place as Lord of Winterfell upon his father's death. While he is not his mother's favorite, Catelyn often remarks that she sees a great deal of herself in Robb. He is very close to his half-brother Jon Snow, whom he has never treated like an outsider in the family, and his father's ward Theon Greyjoy, who had been living in Winterfell since they were ten. Robb is sometimes prideful and boyish, but he is also very dignified and shares the same views as his father on duty and honor. Like all his siblings except for his sister Arya and half-brother Jon Snow, he has his mother's red hair, blue eyes, and fair skin (he resembles his father in the TV series). In Game of Thrones, gaining a direwolf that he named Grey Wind, Robb gets into a confrontation with Joffrey with Theon restraining him from attacking the prince. When his father and sisters depart for King's Landing when Ned becomes Hand of the King, Robb stays behind to manage Winterfell with his mother. When she in turn leaves for the capital, Robb manages on his own, becoming an adult figure to his younger brothers Bran and Rickon. Bran notes that while Robb is his normal self around them, he becomes "Robb the Lord" when discussing business with the servants. He hosts Tyrion Lannister when he comes to visit Winterfell to see Bran, and is told by Tyrion to "learn a lord's courtesies" while his father is away, given the cold reception Robb subjects him to, given his suspicions of the Lannisters' part in his brother's attempted murder. After Robb receives news that his father was arrested for treason after the death of King Robert, Theon encourages him to go to war against the new King Joffrey, claiming that the Lannisters have already started the war by arresting his father. Robb finally agrees and calls his father's bannermen, forming an army and marching into the Riverlands. Catelyn meets him there and negotiates his crossing across The Twins on the condition that Robb marry one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters. Upon learning of his father's public execution by Joffrey's orders, an emotional Robb formally declares war by naming himself King in the North. From there, he captures Jaime Lannister and holds him hostage to exchange him for Sansa and Arya's safe return to Winterfell. In A Clash of Kings, Robb wins victory after victory and becomes even more of a threat than he previously was to the other claimants of the Iron Throne. Despite Lord Tywin's dismissal of Robb as "a green boy" in war, he proves his strength when he defeats the Lannister armies at Oxcross and other battles in the Riverlands. He sends his mother to negotiate a possible alliance with the late king's brother Renly, now vying for the Iron Throne with the support of House Tyrell. He is dismayed to learn that during Catelyn's visit Renly was murdered by an unknown, though it was commonly believed that one of his guards or even Catelyn herself was the culprit. He is also heartbroken when he learns that Theon, whom he had sent to rally his House to Robb's cause, had betrayed him, burning down Winterfell and presumably killing Bran and Rickon. Unable to reach negotiations with the other claimant, Renly's brother Stannis, Robb orders that Catelyn return to him. When she returns she secretly releases Jaime from prison into the custody of Brienne of Tarth, on the condition that he bring back Robb's sisters in return. At the start of A Storm of Swords, Robb had been wounded in another major battle. He returns to his base and releases his mother from house arrest. He surprises his mother by telling her he had secretly married Lady Jeyne Westerling, whom he had slept with while he was recovering and grief-stricken about his brothers, marrying her the next morning to preserve her honor. Robb is not concerned with the Freys withdrawing their support as they are able to work out an agreement in which his uncle Edmure marries a Frey daughter instead. Prior to the wedding, Robb shows his father's sense of justice when he executes Rickard Karstark, a distant kinsman to the Lords of Winterfell, for senselessly killing Lannister children who might have served as bargining chips. On their way to the wedding, Robb insists his mother leave the army to be safe, which his mother refuses to do. At the wedding, Robb is polite to the Freys and apologizes for the insult he made to their House. Lord Walder Frey pretends to accept the apology until springing his trap and having Robb's guards slaughtered. Despite his mother's pleas for mercy, Robb is stabbed through the heart by his own bannerman, Roose Bolton. As a final insult, Robb's head is cut off and replaced with that of Grey Wind who was shot to death after being released by Raynald Westerling.
Sansa Info, Lady Sansa Stark is the second child and elder daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. Sansa is introduced as a sweet, shallow eleven-year-old girl who is very beautiful and ladylike. She inherited her mother's thick auburn hair, blue eyes, and very fair complexion. Proficient in music, singing, dancing, and other feminine pursuits, she was betrothed to the Crown Prince Joffrey Baratheon when her father became Hand of the King. After they arrive in King's Landing, Sansa begins to dress and act like a southern lady, to the displeasure of her governess Septa Mordane. She argues frequently with Arya, whom she blames for Lady's death, and also strains her relationship with her father. She attends the jousts to celebrate Ned's new position and there develops an affection for Loras Tyrell, the Knight of the Flowers, who handed her the only red rose he had before he entered the lists. Later on Joffrey reassures her of his love for her and promises never to treat her badly again. After the king's death and her father's arrest, Sansa is completely stunned and asks to see her father in his cell, and is rebuked by Cersei and Grand Maester Pycelle. She appeals to the newly crowned King Joffrey for mercy on her father, to send him into exile in Winterfell or make him join the Night's Watch. Joffrey promises her mercy—though at Ned's public confession at the Sept of Baelor, he is beheaded on Joffrey's orders. Sansa is inconsolable afterward and refuses to see anyone, though she is forced to continue on with the advice of Sandor Clegane, Joffrey's head bodyguard who shows Sansa the occasional kindness despite his reputation as a heartless killer. When she is taken to see her father's head mounted on a spike, she tells Joffrey that maybe her brother Robb (who is still in Winterfell and declared the north a separate kingdom) will give her Joffrey's head, Joffrey begins using his Kingsguard to beat and humiliate her. In her new life at King's Landing, Sansa learns to fake her love for Joffrey (who since her father's execution she has completely despised) and continues to be the perfect picture of feminine grace. At a tournament on Joffrey's name day, she earns the loyalty of Ser Dontos Hollard, a knight stripped of his title by Joffrey when he came to fight in a tourney while drunk. She finds an unexpected defender in Tyrion Lannister, the king's uncle, who after his return from the east offered her his condolences. On one occasion when Joffrey had Sansa beaten and stripped before the entire court, Tyrion assisted her by offering to have her live in the Tower of the Hand for a short while—Sansa declines since she cannot bear to remember when her father had lived there. She begins "flowering" just before the Battle of Blackwater, and though she attempts to burn her mattress to hide it, one of her maids sees and tells Cersei. Cersei tells Sansa that since she is now a woman she should learn to love only her children, as she will become weaker with the more people she cares for. Sansa is forced to kiss Joffrey's new sword, Hearteater, before she takes over the queen's role as a comforter to the other noblewomen when they are taking shelter during the battle (as opposed to Cersei, who merely gets drunk and publicly expresses her contempt for the situation). In the midst of the battle, Sansa goes up to her room and finds Sandor Clegane (the Hound) there waiting for her. Although he offers to take her away with him to Winterfell, she refuses, having already made a getaway plan with Ser Dontos. After the battle (which the Lannisters won with help from House Tyrell's army, who joined the Lannister cause after Renly was killed) Sansa's betrothal to Joffrey is set aside in favor of Margaery Tyrell, Loras's sister. Sansa pretends to be upset about it while she is secretly overjoyed. Sansa, now a teenager, quickly learns that she is still not out of the court's attention when Margaery and the other women in the Tyrell family invite her to tea, shortly after they arrive at court. Sansa takes a liking to Margaery and becomes friends with her in a sisterly way. It is the Tyrells' intention to let Sansa take a journey to the Highgarden, the seat of their House, when in fact they plan to marry her to the eldest Tyrell son, Willas. Sansa is informed of their intentions by Margaery's grandmother, Olenna, and is pleased with the idea of leaving King's Landing; however, she tells Dontos about the plan, who in turn tells Lord Petyr Baelish, who informs Lord Tywin Lannister and Cersei. Tywin immediately plans to marry Sansa to his youngest son, Tyrion Lannister. Cersei has Sansa fitted for a new gown, which is later revealed to be her wedding dress, and when it is finally finished, Cersei informs Sansa that she will marry Tyrion in a matter of minutes. Horrified, Sansa initially tries to run, but composes herself in time to arrive at the sept. In a private moment with Tyrion, he tells her she is free to marry someone else in his family, but Sansa promises to do her duty (and thinks that she doesn't want to marry any Lannister), and in tears recites her vows and kisses Tyrion at the wedding ceremony. Later that night, when they are finally alone, Tyrion promises not to consummate their marriage until she wants to, though to his annoyance, she suggests she may never want to. Married life proves unsettling for Sansa—she quickly learns of her new husband's habits and every now and then tries to make polite conversation with him, but nothing more. She is secretly disgusted by his appearance, and it is no secret within the court that their marriage is not consummated. Tyrion brings her the news that her mother and brother Robb were killed by House Frey, and she grieves in private (Arya and her other brothers, Bran and Rickon, were also thought to be dead at the time). On their way to Joffrey and Margaery's wedding, Tyrion asks her about her family, and the two have their first real personal conversation together. At the wedding Joffrey is fatally poisoned, and Cersei orders both Tyrion and Sansa to be arrested, as she believes it was their doing. (It is later revealed to be Olenna Tyrell who poisoned him, under the influence of Petyr Baelish, who had had this plan for some time, and both Tyrion and Sansa were innocent.) While Tyrion is arrested, Sansa manages to escape the castle and is smuggled out of the city by Lord Baelish, who murders ser Dontos, and is revealed to be behind her rescue plot as well.
Arya Info, Lady Arya Stark (also known by a wide variety of nicknames) is the third child and younger daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. She serves as a POV character for thirty-three chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, A Feast for Crows, and A Dance with Dragons, and is confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter
Bran Info, Bran Stark is the second son and fourth child of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Stark. He serves as the third-person narrator of twenty-one chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. He is an adventurous and tough-minded boy who believes himself almost an adult at seven-years-old. To his mother's distress, he enjoys exploring Winterfell and scaling the external walls of its towers. He dreams of becoming a great knight. In A Game of Thrones, he sees Queen Cersei and her brother Jaime Lannister having sex. Jaime pushes Bran from the window to keep the relationship secret. However, Bran survives. He suffers a broken back and falls into a coma. An assassin tries to kill him, but his then direwolf companion, Summer, kills the assassin. While comatose, Bran has many visions, including a dream that he is following and a three-eyed crow tells him that it can teach him to fly. Bran eventually wakes from his coma and immediately names his direwolf Summer. He finds that he is crippled from the waist down, forced to be carried everywhere by Hodor, and he cannot remember the events immediately before his fall. Slowly, he realizes that he has gained the ability to assume Summer's consciousness, making him a warg or a skinchanger. After his older brother Robb is crowned King in the North, Bran becomes Robb's heir and the Lord of Winterfell. In A Clash of Kings, Jojen Reed recognizes Bran's ability as a warg and teaches him how to use his skills properly. Jojen also claims that if Bran travels north beyond the Wall, he can find the three-eyed crow. After Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell, Bran goes into hiding. To cement his claim on Winterfell, Theon kills a common-born boy and tells Westeros that Bran is dead. Bran, Jojen, and Meera Reed eventually head north in A Storm of Swords. During his travels with the Reeds, he finds himself increasingly attracted to Meera. He eventually finds the three-eyed crow in A Dance with Dragons, who is revealed to be Brynden Rivers, a bastard of House Targaryen, former King's Hand, and once Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. From him, Bran learns how to be a greenseer—one who has magical powers over nature, has prophetic visions, and has skinchanging abilities. He is able to see into the past through weirwoods trees, though he cannot change the past.
Rickon Info, Rickon Stark is Eddard Stark's youngest child and is three years old in A Game of Thrones. His age makes it difficult for him to cope with the terrible changes brought by war. He is naturally aggressive, strong-willed, and has a violent temper, traits reflected in his direwolf companion Shaggydog. He has not trained Shaggydog, and the direwolf has become savage as a result. When Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell in A Clash of Kings, Rickon hides in the crypts. After Winterfell is sacked and burned, he and the wildling woman Osha travel through the North
JonSnow Info, Jon Snow is Eddard Stark's bastard and serves as the third-person narrator of forty-two chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. He shares his father's devotion to honor and tries to stay morally correct and upright, even when forced to make horrible decisions. He is the same age as Eddard's oldest son Robb Stark. After Lyanna Stark's death, Eddard brings Jon to Winterfell. Despite the objections of his wife Catelyn, Eddard insisted on raising Jon alongside the legitimate Stark children. Jon's childhood is difficult because of his illegitimacy and Catelyn's antipathy. He has a warm relationship with his half-siblings, especially Arya, Bran and Robb but he still feels that he is an outsider. He idolizes his father but is wounded by Eddard's refusal to discuss or even name his mother. Jon adopts the albino runt of the direwolf litter and names him Ghost because he has white fur and never makes a sound. He later displays the ability to assume Ghost's consciousness, making him a warg or skinchanger
Lyanna Info, Lyanna Stark was Eddard Stark's younger and only sister, and the betrothed of Robert Baratheon, who adored her, though it is mentioned that Lyanna was not quite so enthusiastic about the betrothal.She was known for being headstrong, spirited, and beautiful; Eddard's daughter Arya Stark is often compared to Lyanna for their similar personality and appearance.The novels present Lyanna as a trigger for Robert's Rebellion fifteen years before the series; however, the characters remember details differently. According to Daenerys Targaryen, Prince Rhaegar Targaryen crowned Lyanna Stark as his queen of love and beauty at a tournament, passing over his wife Elia Martell, and he "later stole Lyanna] away from her betrothed".Rhaegar had kidnapped Lyanna with the help of Arthur Dayne and Oswell Whent. Robert Baratheon and Bran Stark note within the text that Rhaegar repeatedly raped Lyanna. Barristan Selmy and Daenerys believe Rhaegar was in love with Lyanna. When House Stark protested Lyanna's kidnapping, King Aerys II Targaryen horrifically executed Lyanna's father and brother Brandon.A civil war named Robert's Rebellion ensued that eventually ended at the Trident where Robert killed Rhaegar,who according to Daenerys died for the woman he loved.Shortly afterwards, Eddard went to rescue Lyanna from the Tower of Joy in Dorne. He found her dying "in a bed of blood" and her last words were "Promise me, Ned.".She was buried in the crypts of Winterfell, though the crypts are usually reserved for the Kings and Lords of Winterfell.
Ramsay Info, Ramsay Snow is the acknowledged bastard son of Lord Roose Bolton and is known as the Bastard of Bolton or the Bastard of the Dreadfort. In contrast to his father, Ramsay is vicious, unpredictable, uncouth, and fearless. He enjoys torturing others and is fond of the Bolton custom of flaying enemies. His father disapproves of his behavior and believes that Ramsay has become too infamous throughout the North. Roose also believes that Ramsay murdered Roose's heir and expects that Ramsay will kill all of Roose's future children. Like his father, Ramsay's most striking feature is his small, colorless eyes, "like two chips of dirty ice." He is bluntly described as ugly, with blotchy skin, dry dark hair, and a large fleshy frame that suggests he will grow fat with age. While his father is away at war in A Clash of Kings, Ramsay gathers troops at the Dreadfort, the seat of House Bolton. When he hears that the neighboring House Hornwood lost both its lord and heir, he abducts Lady Hornwood and forcibly marries her to claim her lands. He then rapes her and locks her in a tower where she starves to death. When he is to be brought to justice, he switches clothes with his servant Reek and Reek is killed instead. Under his guise of Reek, he is brought to Winterfell as a captive. Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell shortly after, and Ramsay is released in exchange for a vow of service. When Stark men move to take back Winterfell, Ramsay goes to the Dreadfort and gathers an army of Bolton men. Upon returning to Winterfell, he defeats a Northern army led by Ser Rodrick Cassel, reveals his identity, burns Winterfell, and takes Theon captive. After Robb Stark's death in A Storm of Swords, Ramsay is allowed to marry an Arya Stark impostor, allowing him to claim the title Lord of Winterfell as all male Starks are dead. King Tommen Baratheon also presents House Bolton with a decree of legitimization for Ramsay, making him Ramsay Bolton. Should any character refer to Ramsay as a bastard or as Ramsay Snow after this, Ramsay violently reminds them of his legitimization. At Winterfell in A Dance with Dragons, Ramsay marries "Arya", whom he knows is actually a disguised Jeyne Poole, and physically and sexually abuses her. After Jeyne and Theon escape with the help of Mance Rayder, Ramsay sends Jon Snow a letter stating that he has captured Mance and killed Stannis Baratheon, who was attacking Winterfell. In the letter, he demands Theon and Jeyne back and wants several other members of Stannis's court as captives. If he is denied, he will kill Jon and annihilate the Night's Watch. In the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter, parts of the letter are revealed to have been a lie, as Stannis is still alive and preparing for battle against the Boltons and their allies. Ramsay and his men have left Winterfell to find Theon and Jeyne; Stannis is confident that his superior military experience will grant him victory over Ramsay.
Hodor Info, Hodor is a simple-minded stableboy at Winterfell and the great-grandson of Old Nan, an elderly servant of Winterfell. He is over seven feet tall, and a wildling supposes that he has giant's blood. His true name is Walder; he is called Hodor because he only ever says "Hodor," though no one can say what it means or why he says it. He is described as having a friendly, childish disposition; and, although well endowed, and possessing great size and strength, he is easily frightened. After Bran Stark is crippled in A Game of Thrones, Hodor carries him around in a sling on his back. He sometimes has difficulty taking Bran's directions. When Winterfell is destroyed by Theon Greyjoy in A Storm of Swords, Hodor escapes north with Bran. Bran is able to use his skinchanging powers to take control of Hodor, though Hodor is frightened by the experience.
Osha Info, Osha is a wildling woman who travels south of the Wall to escape the Others. She is captured by House Stark in A Game of Thrones and taken back to Winterfell. She is eventually employed as a scullery maid and is given limited freedom.She becomes close to Bran Stark and often gives him advice. When Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell in A Clash of Kings, she pledges allegiance to him.Shortly after, Ramsay Bolton captures the castle, and she helps Bran and his brother Rickon escape.She travels with Rickon through the North, and by A Dance of Dragons, they have landed on an island supposedly inhabited by cannibals.
Daenerys Info, Daenerys Targaryen, the 'Mother of Dragons', is the daughter of King Aerys II Targaryen and is one of the last surviving members of House Targaryen. She serves as the third-person narrator for thirty-one chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. Thirteen years before the events of the series, she was born on Dragonstone in the midst of a storm, earning her the nickname Daenerys Stormborn. Shortly after, Dragonstone fell to the forces of rebel Robert Baratheon, and Daenerys and her brother Viserys were smuggled away to Braavos. They spent the following years wandering the Free Cities looking for help to retake the Iron Throne of Westeros
Viserys Info, Viserys Targaryen, styling himself Viserys III, is the second born son of Aerys II Targaryen.Thirteen years before the events of the series, he and his sister Daenerys fled Westeros to escape death at the hands of rebel Robert Baratheon.He is a cruel, ambitious, and blunt man who is prone to violent mood swings, maddened by poverty and exile. He spent the past thirteen years wandering through the Free Cities, running from supposed assassins and plotting to return to reclaim his father's throne. He is often mocked as the Beggar King because he must rely on the generosity of those sympathetic to his cause. In A Game of Thrones, he marries his sister to Khal Drogo, hoping that the marriage will buy Drogo's Dothraki warriors. He often states that he is the rightful ruler of the Seven Kingdoms and demands respect, but disrespects Dothraki customs and verbally abuses his sister. He is blind to the fact that virtually everyone, including Daenerys and her sworn knight Jorah Mormont, scorn his petty and vindictive nature. Eventually, Viserys realises that Daenerys is genuinely loved by the Dothraki people, which further infuriates him. When Viserys threatens to kill Daenerys and her unborn child, threatening her with a sword in Vaes Dothrak, where it is forbidden to spill blood, Drogo kills him by "giving him" the golden crown that is part of their agreement, with Viserys held down as molten gold is poured over him. Despite her brother's abuse, knowing that he did keep her safe, Daenerys tries to remember her brother as a good person before his madness and names her cream-colored dragon Viserion after him.
Rhaegar Info, Rhaegar Targaryen was the oldest son of Aerys II, the Prince of Dragonstone, and the heir apparent to the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms. He is described as an intelligent, brooding man who was initially very bookish. It was in one of those mysterious books that he found something that seemed to force him to reconsider his path. Thereafter he trained to become a skilled fighter but remained heavily introverted. He married Elia Martell and had two children, a girl named Rhaenys and an infant son named Aegon Targaryen. After winning a tourney, he crowned Lyanna Stark Queen of Love and Beauty, passing over Elia. He and Lyanna later disappeared, which House Stark and Lyanna's betrothed Robert Baratheon saw as Lyanna's abduction. There is a lot of controversy over what happened, as though many reports indicate it was an abduction, it is uncertain whether Lyanna Stark voluntarily ran away with him. Seeing Rhaegar through the eyes of Jon Connington and Barristan Selmy provides a different light to the hatred Robert Baratheon (and to a certain degree Eddard Stark) hold for him. Robert started a rebellion to rescue her. This eventually led to a battle on the river Trident, ending in the death of Rhaegar who was killed by a blow from Robert's hammer. Elia and Rhaenys were killed at King's Landing and along with the supposed death of his son Aegon. Though Robert vilifies Rhaegar throughout A Game of Thrones, many characters express admiration for him and it is stated that most of Westeros remembers him with love. It is also regularly implied that he would have been a great king. He was the namesake of Daenerys's late son, Rhaego, and of her green-colored dragon Rhaegal.
AerysII Info, Aerys Targaryen, also called The Mad King, ruled the Seven Kingdoms as Aerys II shortly before the events of A Song of Ice and Fire and was the last Targaryen king. When he first took the throne, he was said to have been generous and charming, though short-tempered and prone to fits of madness. With the help of his many Hands of the King, the kingdom enjoyed many years of peace and the treasury was well-stocked with gold. In accordance with ancient Targaryen practice, he married his sister Rhaella, but their marriage was not a happy one and became abusive towards the end. They had three children, Rhaegar, Viserys, and Daenerys. As his reign continued, Aerys's behavior became increasingly erratic and his fits of madness becoming more frequent. A defining moment occurred when, while trying to arrest Lord Denys Darklyn of Duskendale for openly defying him, Aerys was taken prisoner and held captive for six months before being rescued by Ser Barristan Selmy. Shaken by this experience, Aerys's descent into madness worsened, and he eventually became a cruel and sadistic man driven by paranoia and capriciousness. He was also obsessed with fire and burned many people alive, to the point of being sexually aroused by the sight of seeing people burning alive. His paranoia led to him developing phobias of poisoning and sharp implements, the latter from many cuts on the Iron Throne, becoming gaunt and frail with long hair and nails while allowing only his Kingsguard to have swords in his presence. After Rhaegar and Lyanna Stark disappeared, House Stark and Lyanna's betrothed Robert Baratheon believed her to have been abducted and Aerys responded to the allegation with the horrific execution of Lyanna's brother and father. Shortly after, several houses rebelled and Aerys planned to have King's Landing be burned to the ground with all its inhabitants rather that allow the rebels to take the city. Before this could be done, Aerys is fatally stabbed from behind by his Kingsguard Jaime Lannister, uttering his intent to burn them all in his dying breath.
Aegon Info, Aegon Targaryen claimed to be the only son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Elia Martell. If Aegon had been crowned, he would have ruled as Aegon VI. Fifteen years before the events of the series, the infant Aegon was reported to have been killed by Gregor Clegane. In A Dance with Dragons, it is claimed that Varys switched Aegon with another infant and smuggled Aegon out of King's Landing. He spent his life in exile and was raised by Jon Connington, a close friend of Rhaegar's. To hide his identity, he dyes his silver hair blue, which also makes his violet eyes appear blue. He also pretends to be the son of Jon, who takes the name Griff, and becomes known as Young Griff. He and Jon plan to conquer Westeros and crown Aegon the King of the Seven Kingdoms. They begin travelling to Volantis to join their strength with his aunt Daenerys Targaryen. When it becomes apparent that Daenerys has no intention of immediately conquering Westeros, the Golden Company abandons their idea of joining her and swear allegiance to Aegon. Aegon decides to attack Westeros while it is embroiled in civil war, partially because it will allow him to meet Daenerys as an equal instead of begging her for aid. The decision was made based on advice given to Aegon by Tyrion Lannister, but it is as yet unknown if Tyrion gave the advice in good faith. The group lands in the Stormlands and capture several castles. Their next target is Storm's End, the ancestral home of House Baratheon. Aegon plans to lead the charge himself and raise the banner of House Targaryen above the battlements.
Tywin Info, Tywin Lannister is Lord of Casterly Rock, Shield of Lannisport, and Warden of the West. He is a calculating, ruthless, and controlling man. He married his cousin Joanna, and their marriage was a happy one. She was his beloved companion and most trusted counselor. When she died giving birth to their dwarf son Tyrion, he was devastated and it is said that "the best part of Tywin died with her." He never remarried. Tywin loves his children Cersei and Jaime, but he despises Tyrion for being deformed and for causing Joanna's death. In his youth, he single-handedly restored the honor and fortune of the Lannisters and dedicated himself to maintaining his family's prestige. He was appointed the Hand of the King to Aerys II Targaryen at a young age and held the position for twenty years. He proved himself a capable leader and his tenure was marked by peace and prosperity. Others joked that Tywin, not Aerys, ruled the kingdom. Aerys's increasing paranoia and jealousy drove the two into bitter disagreements. When Aerys named Jaime to the Kingsguard and robbed Tywin of his heir, he resigned from his position. During Robert Baratheon's rebellion fifteen years before the events of the series, Tywin remained neutral until Robert won a decisive victory. He then captured King's Landing and ordered the murder of Rhaegar Targaryen's young children. In A Game of Thrones, he views the kidnapping of Tyrion as a slight against his family and sends Gregor Clegane to raid the Riverlands. He then spends much of his time fighting House Stark in the following war. After King Robert Baratheon dies, he is named Hand of the King to his grandson Joffrey Baratheon. He sends Tyrion to serve in his stead. Tywin continues the war through A Clash of Kings. Upon hearing that rebel Stannis Baratheon is attacking King's Landing, he arrives in time to drive Stannis away. He assumes his position of Hand in A Storm of Swords. He arranges for Joffrey to marry Margaery Tyrell to secure an alliance between the Lannisters and Tyrells; and he orders Tyrion to marry Sansa Stark to claim Winterfell. He also plots the treacherous massacre at Edmure Tully's wedding, which kills rebel Robb Stark and most of his army. This effectively ends the ongoing war. When Joffrey is poisoned and Tyrion is blamed, Tywin presides at his son's trial. Tyrion is determined guilty in a trial by combat and is sentenced to death. However, he escapes and makes his way to Tywin's bedchamber. Tyrion finds him in the privy and kills him with a crossbow bolt.
Cersei Info, Cersei Lannister of House Lannister is the older twin sister of Jaime and is the only daughter of Tywin Lannister. She serves as the third-person narrator for twelve chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. She is physically beautiful and intelligent, but she is also greedy, cruel, manipulative, and amoral; she is also short tempered and quick to hold grudges, as well as often rushing into situations without pausing to consider the consequences of her actions. She shares her father's belief that to be feared is better than to be loved; however, unlike her father, Cersei has never learnt to temper ruthlessness with pragmatism and good judgement. She often feels that she should have been born male and given a sword, and she resents the restrictions put on her because she is female. Several characters state that she wants power but does not wield it well. She is inseparable from Jaime, and the pair have maintained an incestuous relationship since they were young. On the other hand she despises her younger brother, the dwarf Tyrion Lannister, as she holds him responsible for their mother's demise and has never forgiven him since then. Fifteen years before the events of the series, Cersei married King Robert Baratheon and became Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, but did not take on the Baratheon name after becoming Robert's queen. She neither loved nor respected Robert because he called her Lyanna while consummating the marriage. She had three children, but all three are fathered by Jaime rather than Robert. She is greatly concerned for the safety of her children, but she does not care about the rest of their well-being, provides them with little in the way of sound guidance or consistent discipline, and can react abusively when they defy or disappoint her. In A Game of Thrones, Eddard Stark discovers the truth of her children's parentage and offers her a chance to flee in exile before he informs Robert. However, Cersei refuses to leave and arranged Robert's death so that she can crown her son Joffrey while naming herself regent. When Eddard tries to publicly reveal the truth, she has him arrested for treason but ends up powerless to stop Joffrey from ordering Eddard's execution. Throughout A Clash of Kings, as her younger brother Tyrion becomes a substitute Hand of the King to curtail her policy, Cersei begins taking other lovers while Jaime was captured by Rob Stark. When Tyrion is injured defending King's Landing, having plotted to committed suicide, Cersei lied to Tywin of Tyrion's actions to have the title stripped from him. However, when Tywin becomes Hand of the King in A Storm of Swords and expressing a distrust towards House Tyrell, Cersei is livid to learn that she is to be married off to Loras Tyrell. After Joffrey's death, though he has no role in the deed, Cersei immediately accused Tyrion of poisoning her son. Upon Tywin's murder by Tyrion, manipulating Tommen, Cersei reclaims her position as regent while naming herself Lady of Casterly Rock. With nothing restricting her authority, feeling that she can be a better ruler than her father, Cersei began becoming paranoid and unstable to the point that Jaime abandoned his sister. In time, from stripping the Tyrells from positions of influence and authority to refusing to honor the Crown's debts, Cersei made enemies of the Iron Bank of Braavos and the Faith of the Seven. When Cersei tried to win back the Faith, she made matters worst in by allowing the religion to revive its military order, the Faith Militant, in hindsight. Cersei is eventually able to frame Margaery Tyrell, Tommen's wife, for adultery and high treason and has her arrested. However, one of Cersei's lovers admits to having sex with Cersei and to killing on her command, and she is arrested by the Faith. She pins her hopes on a Kingsguard champion in a trial by combat, but finds Jaime refusing to aid her. In A Dance with Dragons, she confesses to adultery with her cousin Lancel and three others, knowing that she will not be executed for those crimes. Before her trial, the Faith requires that she submit to a penance walk across King's Landing. All of her hair is shaved and she is forced to walk naked before the crowds. She breaks down in tears just before the end of the ordeal. She is carried into the Red Keep by Ser Robert Strong, the newest member of the Kingsguard and her champion in the trial by combat. After her penance walk, her uncle believes that she appears meeker.
Jamie Info, Jaime Lannister is the younger twin brother of Cersei and is the first son of Tywin Lannister. He serves as the third-person narrator of seventeen chapters throughout A Storm of Swords, A Feast for Crows, and A Dance with Dragons. Like Cersei, he is arrogant, amoral, and impulsive, although unlike the rest of his family, he has no desire for power. He is inseparable from Cersei, and the pair have maintained an incestuous relationship since they were young. He treats his dwarf brother Tyrion with respect and kindness, though Cersei and Tywin do not. An immensely skilled warrior, he was knighted at a young age and has little interest in anything other than battle. To be close to Cersei, he renounced his claim to Casterly Rock and became the youngest knight to ever join the Kingsguard, a group of knights sworn to protect the King. However, he was raised to the position because King Aerys II Targaryen wanted to rob Tywin of his heir. In protest, Tywin resigned his position as Hand of the King and took Cersei from King's Landing, leaving Jaime alone at court, guarding a king who was becoming ever more mad and cruel. Jaime became disenchanted with his position as he was forced to watch the cruelties of Aerys in silence. When the King planned to burn the city instead of surrendering to rebels, Jaime murdered both the king and the agent sent to arrange the act. Despite the fact Jamie killed a dangerous and insane king, as well as saved the capital from being burnt to the ground, it gave him a reputation as an evil and dishonorable man, who violated Westeros 's most sacred taboo. By A Game of Thrones, he and Cersei have three children, though the children believe that King Robert Baratheon is their father. Jaime cares little for his children. He accompanies King Robert Baratheon and Cersei to Winterfell. Bran Stark discovers Jaime and Cersei having sex, and Jaime throws the boy out a window to keep the relationship secret. When Tyrion is captured by Catelyn Stark, Jaime breaks Kingsguard conduct and attacks Catelyn's husband Eddard Stark to retaliate. He then leaves King's Landing and joins his father, who is marching against Catelyn's home in the Riverlands. He is given command of half of Tywin's army. He is eventually captured by Robb Stark. Despite his capture, Cersei names him Lord Commander of the Kingsguard after Barristan Selmy is dismissed. At the end of A Clash of Kings, Catelyn releases Jaime after he swears to return her daughters to her and to never take arms against the Starks or Tullys again. He and Brienne of Tarth journey to King's Landing, but they are captured by Stark bannermen. Jaime's right hand is cut off in an attempt to drive a wedge between Roose Bolton and Tywin. Without his hand, Jaime can no longer fight. He falls into a depression and loses the will to live. With Brienne's help, he realizes that he can still live for his family and for revenge. He agrees to not blame Roose for the loss of his hand and is released, without Brienne. However, he returns to rescue her, and they return safely to King's Landing. Jaime is changed by his experience and decides to become a just and honorable man. His actions upon his return cause Jaime to become alienated from his immediate family; Jaime refuses to resign from the Kingsguard and argues with his father, whose gift of a sword is taken as an insult. Jaime gives the blade, which he names Oathkeeper, to Brienne and orders her to keep Sansa Stark safe. When Tyrion is accused for the murder of Joffrey Baratheon, Jaime and Cersei's son, Jaime refuses to believe the claims and helps Tyrion escape. He confesses that Tyrion's first wife was not a prostitute as Jaime told him, but she truly loved Tyrion. In response, Tyrion tells Jaime that he killed Joffrey, a lie, and reveals that Cersei has been unfaithful. Tyrion then goes to kill their father Tywin. In A Feast for Crows, he is furious at Tyrion for killing their father, and feels partially responsible himself, and believes that Tyrion lied about Cersei. Twice, Cersei asks him to become Hand of the King. He refuses both times, and Cersei angrily ends their relationship. He goes to lift the siege on Riverrun, punishing Lannister bannermen for atrocities on the journey and growing fond of dispensing true justice. He begins sparring with Ilyn Payne to learn how to fight with his left hand, but progress has been slow. He learns from his cousin Lancel that Cersei has taken other lovers and becomes upset as she has been faithful to him. Jaime successfully defeats the Tully forces without taking up arms, in keeping with his oath to Catelyn. When Cersei is imprisoned for adultery and high treason, she begs Jaime to return to Kings Landing, stating that she loves him. He burns the letter and abandons her to her fate. In A Dance with Dragons, he is approached by Brienne. She tells him that Sansa is being held captive by Sandor Clegane, a lie, and claims that Sansa will die unless he comes alone. Jaime leaves with Brienne, and his fate is unknown.
Joffrey Info, Joffrey is the eldest of Queen Cersei Lannister's children and Robert's heir to the Iron Throne. Though a Baratheon in name, Joffrey is actually a product of incest between Cersei and Jaime Lannister. Joffrey is unaware of his true parentage until he hears it through rumours around King's Landing. Robert Baratheon never questions Joffrey's lineage though is not fond of the youth and often ignores him. He is described as a strong-willed child with a vicious temper and an unchecked sadistic streak, a behavior often attributed to Cersei's and Robert's parenting. He takes as his personal coat of arms the Baratheon black-and-gold crowned stag and the Lannister red-and-gold lion combatant. During the events of A Game of Thrones, Joffrey is betrothed to Sansa Stark. However, it is revealed in A Storm of Swords that Joffrey sent an assassin to kill the crippled Bran Stark on a whim; it is later further revealed that he did so to try to impress his father after overhearing a drunken Robert say that Bran should be put out of his misery. After Robert's death, Joffrey is crowned king, then arrests Eddard Stark for refusing to acknowledge his right. Though he forces Ned to recant and declare him king in order to save his daughters, Joffrey takes back his promise to Sansa to exile her father and instead orders Ned's execution, which touches off the conflict that follows, and leads to the War of the Five Kings. Throughout A Clash of Kings, his reign marks by the start of the War of the Five Kings, Joffrey rules King's Landing with cruelty and caprice, often ignoring his mother and advisors.Jack Gleeson portrayed Joffrey Baratheon on the HBO series. He commits various atrocities, such as frequently ordering his King's Guard to beat Sansa. In the TV series, he orders all of Robert's illegitimate children slaughtered, upon hearing of what he believed to be ugly rumors, to ensure no usurpers (whereas Cersei committed this act in the novels). He even shoots several refugees with a crossbow when they beg for bread at the castle gates. Eventually, Joffrey comes to be viewed as a tyrant and is nearly killed during a riot. When Stannis Baratheon arrives at King's Landing, Joffrey serves only as a figurehead and avoids the heavy fighting after Cersei calls him back to the safety of the castle to protect him. That act damages his army's morale and Joffrey only maintains the city thanks to his Uncle Tyrion, his grandfather Tywin, and the support of House Tyrell. Joffrey ends his betrothal to Sansa in order to wed Margaery Tyrell, to cement their alliance and join their houses (though he continues to menace Sansa and makes crass, public declarations of his intentions to take her as a mistress). However, during the wedding feast, Joffrey is poisoned and chokes to death in a scheme orchestrated by Olenna Redwyne and Petyr Baelish. With the exception of his mother, Joffrey is not particularly mourned by anyone; even his real father Jaime believes Joffrey deserved to die. 
Kevan Info, Ser Kevan Lannister is Tywin Lannister's younger brother and most trusted captain, known for his reliability and loyalty. He serves as the third-person narrator for the epilogue of A Dance with Dragons. At an early age, he realized his brother was superior. He became comfortable with carrying out Tywin's wishes and resigned himself to perpetually living in his brother's shadow. Though he is intelligent, it is said that Kevan never had a thought Tywin did not have first. In A Storm of Swords, he is appointed Master of Laws to his great-nephew King Joffrey Baratheon, and after Tywin's death, he is offered the position Hand of the King in A Feast for Crows. However, he does not trust the leadership of his niece Cersei and will only take the appointment if she returns to Casterly Rock and gives him the regency. She refuses to do so, and he refuses the position. He accuses Cersei of being as unfit a mother as she is a ruler. Enraged, she withdraws the offer. He is quickly alienated from his immediate family; he is angry at his son's sudden piety, comes to believe his nephew Tyrion killed Tywin, suspects that Cersei is having an incestuous relationship with her brother Jaime, and questions the true parentage of Cersei's children. He returns to the west and Cersei gives several positions, to which Kevan would have been better suited, to lesser members of House Lannister in retaliation. After Cersei's imprisonment, the council appoints him Lord Regent to King Tommen Baratheon. Kevan accepts the position in A Dance with Dragons and tries to solve the problems Cersei created, mostly by repairing relations between House Tyrell and House Lannister. Because his efforts to stabilize the Lannister-Tyrell regime threaten Aegon Targaryen's plans to take the throne, Varys shoots Kevan in the chest with a crossbow, which Varys hopes will suggest Tyrion is responsible, further destabilizing Cersei. Though it may seem easy to guess that it probably wasn't Tyrion, the ruse only had to fool Cersei. Varys expresses regret that this is necessary; he views the regime Kevan could have saved as evil, but knows Kevan to be a good man. The dying Kevan is then surrounded by dagger-wielding children, whom Varys orders to finish him off.
Lancel Info, Lancel Lannister is the oldest son of Kevan Lannister and serves as squire to King Robert Baratheon at King's Landing in A Game of Thrones. He idolizes his cousin Jaime to the point that he helps Jaime's sister Queen Cersei kill Robert so he could also be a Kingslayer. In A Clash of Kings, Cersei knights him for his part in Robert's death. When Jaime goes to war, Cersei takes Lancel as a lover because he resembles her brother. Tyrion eventually discovers the affair and blackmails Lancel into spying for him. During an attack on King's Landing, Lancel guards Cersei's son King Joffrey Baratheon and takes a serious wound in the fighting. During recovery in A Storm of Swords, he experiences a spiritual awakening and spends much of his time atoning for his sins. He marries the recently widowed Amerei Frey, nicknamed Gatehouse Ami for her promiscuity, as part of a pact between Houses Lannister and Frey. Lancel becomes Lord of the Darry shortly after in A Feast for Crows. Rumors of his wife's promiscuity circulate, but he is apathetic as he does not care about what his wife does. When the Faith Militant, the military order of the Faith, is reinstated, he renounces his wife and lands and is seen as a member of the Warrior Sons order in A Dance with Dragons. 
Bronn Info, Bronn is a skilled sellsword of low birth. He is described as having a sardonic sense of humor and a pragmatic, amoral philosophy. He is introduced in A Game of Thrones as one of the men who responds to Catelyn Stark's call to capture Tyrion Lannister, but he only does so in the hopes of a reward.  He helps Catelyn take Tyrion to the Eyrie, and to Catelyn's annoyance, he quickly befriends Tyrion.When Tyrion needs a man to champion him in a trial by combat, Bronn steps forward as he believes he will earn more for his services from Tyrion than from Catelyn.He wins the duel and enters into Tyrion's service.He accompanies Tyrion to King's Landing, and in A Clash of Kings he becomes the captain of Tyrion's guards. He is tasked with hiring mercenaries to deal with the hostile common-folk and leads the efforts to extinguish fires started by rioters. When Stannis Baratheon attacks the city by sailing up the Blackwater River, Bronn is in charge of raising the massive chain boom across the river to cut off the fleet's escape. The operation is successful, he is knighted for his contributions, and he begins calling himself Ser Bronn of the Blackwater. In A Storm of Swords, Tyrion is accused of murdering King Joffrey Baratheon and asks Bronn to champion him in a trial by combat against the monstrous Gregor Clegane. However, Bronn refuses and instead takes Cersei's offer to marry Lollys of the wealthy House Stokeworth. In A Feast for Crows, Lollys gives birth to the son she conceived while she was raped during a riot. Bronn names the boy Tyrion in honor of his former employer, leading Cersei to fear he still supports Tyrion. Lollys's older sister Falyse and Falyse's husband Balman are ordered to kill Bronn in an "accident." However, Balman foolishly challenges him to a duel. Bronn defeats and kills Balman with underhand tactics, after extracting a confession that Cersei put him up to it, and expels Falyse from the castle. To hide the plot, Cersei has Falyse killed. After Falyse's death, Lollys is named Lady Stokeworth, and Balman's death leaves Bronn unopposed as Lord Protector of Stokeworth, a claim derived from his wife's new title.
Gregor Info, Ser Gregor Clegane, known as the Mountain That Rides or simply the Mountain, is the older brother of Sandor Clegane and is a retainer to Tywin Lannister. He is "close to eight feet tall" and nearly 30 stone (420 lb; 190 kg) of muscle. His size and strength make him a fearsome warrior, and he has earned a reputation for cruelty and brutality. He is able to wield a two-handed sword one handed. When they were children, Gregor shoved Sandor's face into a brazier, gruesomely scarring him. He is also rumored to have killed their father and their sister and his first two wives; and his servants inexplicably disappear. He has committed hundreds of rapes and murders, but he is most infamous for killing the infant Aegon VI Targaryen by bashing the babe's skull against a wall. With the baby's blood and brains still on his hands, he raped and killed Aegon's mother Elia Martell. In A Game of Thrones, Tywin Lannister sends him to raid the Riverlands in retaliation for Catelyn Stark's abduction of Tyrion. Beric Dondarrion is sent to arrest Gregor, but Gregor ambushes and kills him. When war breaks out, Gregor is given command of Tywin's vanguard and left flank and leads his men through intimidation. He and his men continue raiding the Riverlands throughout A Clash of Kings. When Tyrion Lannister demands a trial by combat to prove that he did not poison King Joffrey Baratheon, the accuser Queen Mother Cersei Lannister chooses Gregor as her champion. Elia's brother Oberyn Martell sees this as a chance to claim vengeance and champions Tyrion, evading Gregor before wounding him with a poisoned spear. Gregor admits that he killed Elia and Aegon before crushing Oberyn's skull, but dies a long and agonizing death throughout A Feast for Crows. After being brought to the dungeons for Qyburn's medical experiments, Gregor is stated to be dead with his skull presented to House Martell in A Dance with Dragons as compensation for the deaths of Elia, Rhaenys, Aegon, and Oberyn. It is later heavily implied that Ser Robert Strong, newest member of the Kingsguard and Cersei's champion in her upcoming trial by combat, is in fact Gregor's reanimated (and possibly headless) corpse.
Sandor Info, Sandor Clegane—known as the Hound for his unquestioning loyalty, obedience, and readiness to kill on command, as well as for his banner and helm—is a retainer to House Lannister and the younger brother of Gregor Clegane. He is regarded as one of the most dangerous and skilled fighters in Westeros, and many believe he fears nothing. His face is distinguished by gruesome burn scars, which he received as a child when his brother pushed his head into a brazier. Consequently, he fears fire and hates his brother. When his brother is knighted and becomes even more brutal, Sandor comes to hate knights and views knighthood as hypocrisy. He vows to never become a knight and quickly corrects those who refer to him as Ser, a knight's title. He is described as a tormented man driven by anger and hate, aspiring only to kill his brother. In A Game of Thrones, he acts as bodyguard and servant to Prince Joffrey Baratheon, who calls him Dog. He becomes enamored with Joffrey's intended bride Sansa Stark, though he mocks her for her naïveté and polished manners. Despite his refusal to become a knight, he is named a knight of Joffrey's Kingsguard in A Clash of Kings and is often assigned to guard Sansa. Although he is still faithful to Joffrey, he frequently defends Sansa from Joffrey's attempts to shame and physically abuse her; of the six Kingsguard in King's Landing, he is the only one who never strikes her. During an attack on King's Landing, the widespread use of the Greek fire-like wildfire forces Sandor to abandon the fighting. Before fleeing the city, he seeks out Sansa and offers to take her along. In her panic, she refuses; but she recognizes that he had been afraid in the battle. He demands that she sing for him before he leaves, and after she does, she sees that he is crying. In A Storm of Swords, he wanders the Riverlands until he is captured by outlaws calling themselves the Brotherhood Without Banners, who have also captured Arya Stark. The Brotherhood puts him on trial for Lannister atrocities, and he chooses trial by combat. Although Beric Dondarrion fights with a flaming sword, Sandor defeats him. He is stripped of his gold and set free. He returns to reclaim his gold but, instead, kidnaps Arya to ransom her to her brother Robb Stark and hopes to earn a place in Robb's service. He takes her to the Twins, where Robb is attending a wedding. However, just as they arrive, the Freys are slaughtering the Starks. Sandor and Arya escape and head eastward. They encounter three of Gregor's men at an inn, and Sandor is seriously injured in the ensuing fight. His wounds become infected, and Arya abandons him. In A Feast for Crows, the head of a nearby monastery states that the Hound is dead, but when asked if Sandor is dead, he replies that Sandor is at rest. He claims that the Hound had been buried and his famous helm, shaped as a snarling dog head, left atop a cairn marking the grave. The helm is afterward stolen by criminals and used to blame the Hound for brutal sprees of banditry. It is later obtained by the Brotherhood Without Banners.
Robert Info, Robert Baratheon is King of the Seven Kingdoms and at the beginning of A Game of Thrones, he has reigned for fifteen years. He is described as a fat, bearded man who is fond of hunting, whoring, and drinking. However, he was a formidable warrior in his youth. He was the ward of Jon Arryn and was raised at the Eyrie alongside Eddard Stark, another of Jon's wards, whom he considers a brother; in fact, Robert is not very fond of his own brothers Renly and Stannis, a feeling that is mutual. Robert and Eddard grew closer than brothers and became devoted to Jon. Fifteen years before the series, Robert was betrothed to Ned's sister Lyanna, whom he adored from afar. When Lyanna and Rhaegar Targaryen disappeared, Robert was outraged. King Aerys II Targaryen ordered Jon to execute Robert and Eddard. Instead, Jon Arryn raised the Vale in rebellion, beginning the conflict known as Robert's Rebellion or the War of the Usurper. Robert eventually killed Rhaegar on the river Trident and seized the throne after marching into King's Landing, using his bloodline as pretext (his paternal grandmother being a Targaryen). In the last days of the war, Lyanna died due to circumstances that remain unconfirmed. Robert is forever haunted by her memory and subsequently bears a deep hatred against House Targaryen, denouncing Rhaegar's murdered children Aegon and Rhaenys as "dragonspawn" and dispatching his assassins to track down Aerys's remaining two children, Daenerys and Viserys. After winning the crown, he married Cersei Lannister to ensure House Lannister's loyalty to his rule. Robert and Cersei share three children, all actually fathered by Cersei's brother Jaime. Although Robert believes he is the father, he prefers to ignore the children rather than raise them, leaving the responsibility of running the Seven Kingdoms to his Hand, Lord Arryn. Robert squanders the vast treasury left by Aerys on tourneys and feasts, leaving the crown heavily in debt. In spite of his squandering, he is not an unpopular king, and his lifespan brought a renewed sense of peace to the kingdom following the near-extinction of its (until then) only ruling dynasty. Believing the Seven Kingdoms ready to crumble, Lord Balon Greyjoy tried to take advantage as he raised his own rebellion against the crown, which was suppressed nine years before the events of A Game of Thrones. Robert's careless ways create a political and fiscal bubble that bursts at the moment of his death, setting the stage for the War of the Five Kings, in which his heir Joffrey and brothers Stannis and Renly all contend for the Iron Throne. In A Game of Thrones, he goes hunting severely drunk and is gutted by a boar. He dies a few days later.
Myrcella Info, Princess Myrcella Baratheon is second oldest child and only daughter of Queen Cersei Lannister. Like her brothers, she is also the daughter of Cersei's brother Jaime Lannister, but she is unaware of this and believes she is the daughter of King Robert Baratheon. She is described as delicate, beautiful and courteous and is said to have all her mother's beauty but none of her cruel nature. Myrcella is known for displaying tremendous courage, a strong will and great intelligence, despite being only eight at the beginning of the series. To ensure that House Martell will support Joffrey, who is now king and fighting a civil war, Myrcella is betrothed to marry Prince Trystane Martell when they come of age and is sent to Dorne in A Clash of Kings. According to other characters, they get along well and have become friends. After Joffrey's death in A Storm of Swords, Princess Arianne Martell schemes to make Myrcella queen of Westeros, as under the laws of Dorne the eldest child, whether son or daughter, succeeds to the throne. The plan goes awry, however, and in the ensuing chaos, Ser Gerold Dayne, one of Arianne's co-conspirators, attempts to kill Myrcella. She survives, but she loses an ear and is hideously scarred. 
Tommen Info, Prince Tommen Baratheon is the younger brother of Prince Joffrey and Princess Myrcella and is second in line for the throne. Tommen is Queen Cersei Lannister's youngest child and, like his siblings, he is also the son of Cersei's brother Jaime Lannister; but he is unaware of this and believes he is the son of King Robert Baratheon. Tommen is described as plump, sweet, and weak-willed but tries hard and is kind hearted, in contrast to his cruel, headstrong older brother. It is believed by many characters that Tommen will make a far better king than Joffrey. After King Joffrey's death in A Storm of Swords, Tommen is crowned and marries Joffrey's young widow, Margaery Tyrell. However, he is more interested in his kittens and games than in the realm and believes kingship only involves signing and sealing decrees. Tommen is also a submissive child and, as a result, does everything that is asked of him. Thus, Cersei uses him to rule as she likes, and Margaery manipulates him into resisting his mother. Stannis Info, Lord Stannis Baratheon is the younger brother of King Robert and older brother of Lord Renly.  He is portrayed as a brooding and humorless man with a harsh sense of justice and an obsession with slights both real and imagined. Stannis is known for his stubbornness and determination and is described by Donal Noye as cold iron: "He's cold and brittle and will break before it bends." Nevertheless, he is regarded by many as a capable and skilled naval and military commander. Stannis is married to Lady Selyse of House Florent, a house sworn to House Tyrell, and has a daughter named Shireen. Fifteen years before the events of the series, Stannis fought alongside his brother when Robert rebelled against House Targaryen, though he was torn between his duty to his family and to the realm and only sided with Robert after much soul searching, and took the Targaryen-controlled fortress Dragonstone after withstanding a lengthy siege of the Baratheon seat, Storm's End, by the armies of House Tyrell. Stannis and his army survived because Davos Seaworth smuggled them enough food to last until the siege was lifted. However, despite Stannis's efforts to win Robert the kingship, Robert didn't thank him for it, instead giving credit elsewhere and blaming Stannis for others' mistakes. To slight Stannis, Robert named Stannis the Lord of Dragonstone while naming Renly the Lord of the wealthier and more powerful Storm's End, which was Stannis's seat by right (though admittedly Stannis was better suited to the task of ruling Dragonstone and the lords sworn to it, who had been staunch Targaryen loyalists). All this occurred before the events of A Game of Thrones. Stannis was also named Master of Ships and later served on Robert's small council after Robert ascended the throne in King's Landing. Shortly before A Game of Thrones, Stannis had suspected that Queen Cersei Lannister's children were not fathered by Robert. Suspecting that Robert would dismiss Stannis's accusations as a self-serving attempt to put himself higher in the line of succession, Stannis brought his suspicions to Robert's Hand, Jon Arryn. Upon Jon's death, Stannis resigned from his position and returned to Dragonstone to gather his strength. By the time A Clash of Kings opens, Stannis, at his wife's urging, begins to consider Melisandre of Asshai, priestess of the god R'hllor, as a trusted adviser. Melisandre tells Stannis that he is Azor Ahai, a messianic figure who will be born again and will end the war between R'hllor and the dark Other. After hearing of Robert's death, Stannis claims to be the true heir to the Iron Throne as Cersei's children are illegitimate. He then changes his personal coat of arms from the gold-and-black stag to the burning red heart of R'hllor with the crowned stag in its center. However, most of the Baratheon bannermen support the claim of the more charismatic Renly. When Renly is mysteriously slain by Melisandre's dark ghost-demon, many of Renly's bannermen immediately swear allegiance to Stannis, who then attacks King's Landing by sailing up the Blackwater river from Blackwater Bay. However, the Lannisters are prepared, thanks to Tyrion (who has stockpiled and prepared wildfire, which is used to set the entire river on fire), and Stannis loses most of his ships and men.In A Storm of Swords, Stannis retreats to Dragonstone with what is left of his army; many of his bannerman having been either slain, captured or defected to Joffrey. Davos, his Hand, convinces him to save the Night's Watch from the wildling army. Stannis leads his army north and arrives in time to crush the wildling assault. He stays at the Wall to negotiate with the wildlings, giving them refuge from the Others and allowing them to settle the northern regions of Westeros. In A Dance with Dragons, Stannis wins the clans of the northern mountains to his cause and captures Asha Greyjoy, earning him the support of two northern houses. He then marches on Winterfell to take it from Ramsay Snow, but his army is stopped three days from the castle by heavy snows. Ramsay later writes a letter to Jon stating that Stannis is dead.However, an excerpt from the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter shows Stannis alive and aware of House Karstark's intentions to betray him to Roose Bolton; consequently, Stannis has the Karstarks arrested and plans to execute them, though whether they are burned or beheaded depends on their willingness to confess.Meanwhile, Stannis has brokered a loan from the Iron Bank of Braavos during A Dance With Dragons and will use the money to hire mercenaries from the Free Cities of Essos, which in turn will place Shireen on the throne if Stannis dies.
Melisandre Info, Melisandre of Asshai is a priestess of R'hllor in service to Stannis Baratheon. She is introduced in A Clash of Kings and serves as the third-person narrator for one chapter of A Dance with Dragons. She is described as a beautiful woman with red eyes, and like all the clergy of her faith, she is always dressed in red; vague recollections of her own past imply that Melisandre was once a slave called Melony, and that she was sold to the temple of R'hllor when she was a child. Because of her devotion to R'hllor, she possesses magical abilities, has prophetic visions, and does not need to eat or sleep. A great heat emanates from her body. She is often friendly, though many characters feel intimidated or threatened by her presence. Melisandre takes a militant stance against the other religions of Westeros, believing the other gods to be demons who need to be destroyed. By A Clash of Kings, Melisandre has converted Stannis's wife Queen Selyse into a follower of R'hllor and has convinced Stannis that he is the Azor Ahai, the messianic figure prophesied to return and end the perpetual war between R'hllor and his opponent, the Great Other. She becomes his most trusted adviser and counsels him on how to prepare for the battle against the enemy Great Other. She is also able to win over many of Stannis's men, but alienates the rest because of her aggressive counsel, her attitude toward their religion, and her strange faith and abilities. Many, most notably Stannis's trusted adviser Davos Seaworth, believe she is leading their king astray. Attempts on her life are made at least twice, once by Dragonstone's aged Maester Cressen after Stannis's coronation, and once by Davos following the Battle of the Blackwater; her powers allow her to survive one and foresee the other. Despite the fact that Davos planned to kill her, she trusts him as he is steadfast in his loyalty to Stannis. She takes credit for the deaths of Stannis's enemies and competitors for the throne, killing Renly Baratheon and Ser Cortnay Penrose, castellan at Storm's End, with shadow assassins conjured from her womb (although Renly's death is portrayed without her part, it is implied when she births the shadow which kills Ser Cortnay). In A Storm of Swords, she goes north with Stannis and remains at the wall throughout A Dance With Dragons, claiming she has important work to do there.
Davos Info, Ser Davos Seaworth, called the Onion Knight and sometimes Shorthand, is the common-born head of the newly founded House Seaworth and was formerly known as the most notorious and most elusive smuggler in the Seven Kingdoms. He is introduced in A Clash of Kings and is the third-person narrator for a total of thirteen chapters throughout A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. In his smuggling days, he was said to handle a ship at night better than anyone. Before the events of the series, he earned his knighthood by smuggling fish and onions to the besieged Stannis Baratheon and his army during Robert Baratheon's rebellion. Before knighting him, Stannis removed the last joints from four fingers on Davos's left hand as punishment for years of smuggling; believing these joints bought his wife and seven sons a better future, Davos keeps them in a pouch around his neck for luck until they are lost in the Battle of the Blackwater.In A Clash of Kings, he loyally supports Stannis's claim to the throne and his honesty and willingness to voice his unaltered opinion make him Stannis's most trusted adviser, though Stannis often dislikes what he hears.  However, Davos is a follower of the Faith of the Seven and cannot bring himself to accept or trust the priestess Melisandre and her god R'hllor. He does not object to her because Stannis is also a follower of R'hllor.He fights in the Battle of the Blackwater, an attack on King's Landing that ends in the slaughter of Stannis's troops; Davos's four eldest sons are killed and Davos himself seemingly perishes. In A Storm of Swords, he is revealed to have barely survived. He blames Melisandre for the deaths of his sons and plans to kill her, but she foresees the attempt and has him jailed.Stannis pardons Davos and raises him to Lord of the Rainwood and names him Hand of the King, a position Davos reluctantly accepts.Feeling that a Hand cannot be illiterate, he learns to read and write and inadvertently reads the Night's Watch's letter calling for aid.Davos convinces Stannis to help the Watch defend against the wildling army.While Stannis sails to the Wall, Davos goes to White Harbor in the North to negotiate an alliance with Lord Manderly, who takes him captive. In A Feast for Crows, Manderly is ordered to execute Davos in exchange for Manderly's son. Soon after, Davos's head and hands are said to be displayed on the city walls.A Dance with Dragons reveals that Manderly executed a similar-looking criminal instead. Davos is secretly and comfortably held in a cell and is released upon the return of Manderly's son. Manderly will pledge White Harbor's support, and promises most of the North will follow suit, if Davos uses his smuggling skills to recover Manderly's liege lord Rickon Stark, who was previously thought dead. Upon learning the boy's whereabouts, implied to be the northern island of Skagos, Davos considers returning to his cell better than sailing through dangerous waters to where cannibals live.
Renly Info, Lord Renly Baratheon is the younger brother of Robert Baratheon and Stannis Baratheon. He is described as handsome and charismatic, winning friends easily, but many characters view him as frivolous and believe he sees everything, including the war for the kingship, as a game. By the beginning of A Game of Thrones, he is made Lord of Storm's End, the seat of House Baratheon. This greatly upsets Stannis as Storm's End is supposed to go to the older brother; the castle is also much larger and richer and therefore gives Renly more power. Eventually, Renly is called to King's Landing to serve on Robert's council as master of laws, his lawmaker. As Robert is dying, Renly approaches Eddard Stark suggesting they seize control of the Iron Throne before Queen Cersei Lannister could take it for herself. When Eddard refuses as Stannis is rightful heir, Renly leaves the city. After Robert dies, Renly declares himself King of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings and wins the support of the Baratheon bannermen and the support of other houses, despite Stannis's better claim. He also seals an alliance with House Tyrell by marrying Margaery Tyrell. In the television series, he changes his coat of arms to a golden crowned stag on Tyrell green to reflect this. He leads his army slowly through southern Westeros, biding his time. He lets his enemies House Lannister and House Stark wear each other out and hosts tournaments while waiting. He is forced to change tactics when Stannis marches against him. While preparing for battle, Renly is killed by a mysterious shadow. Renly Baratheon is portrayed by Gethin Anthony in the television adaptation of the novels. The adaptation openly depicts Renly and Ser Loras Tyrell as lovers, an interaction obliquely addressed in the novels.
Brienne Info, Brienne Tarth, called Brienne of Tarth, is the only surviving child and daughter of Lord Selwyn of Evenfall and heiress to Tarth, an island in the Stormlands. She serves as the third-person narrator for eight chapters of A Feast for Crows. She is a highly trained and skilled warrior made dangerous by the fact that men underestimate her. From an early age, she knew she would rather be a knight than a wife. She is considered ugly because she is abnormally large in height and build, androgynous, and stronger than most men. She is often called a freak and is mockingly nicknamed Brienne the Beauty. She is described as honest, loyal, stubborn, and awkward but confident in battle. She holds a naïve and idealized notion of knighthood and the world despite the fact that Westeros does not live up to her high-minded views. She wishes to prove her valor in a worthy cause to win respect and acceptance. She becomes infatuated with Renly Baratheon after he shows her kindness and courtesy, and she wins a place in his Rainbow Guard after winning a tournament melee in A Clash of Kings. Renly states in private that he thinks she is foolish but gave her the position anyway because she wanted to die for him, as opposed to other followers who wanted advantage or position. She is present at Renly's death and is falsely accused of his murder. She flees with Catelyn Stark and enters her service. Later in A Storm of Swords, Catelyn decides to release Jaime Lannister in exchange for her daughters Sansa and Arya; Brienne is sent to protect Jaime on the journey and to escort the Stark girls back. However, Brienne and Jaime are captured by the Brave Companions, a mercenary company in service to Roose Bolton. While in captivity, the two develop a grudging respect for one another, and Jaime eventually risks his life to save her from death in a bear pit. The pair eventually arrive in King's Landing. After Catelyn's death, Jaime entrusts Brienne with a sword forged for him from Eddard Stark's own sword. He names it Oathkeeper as it will allow her to keep her promise to Catelyn and sends her to find and protect Sansa. Brienne wanders the Riverlands in search of Sansa throughout A Feast for Crows. She is eventually captured by the outlaws known as the Brotherhood Without Banners, now led by the resurrected Catelyn. Catelyn claims that she does not believe Brienne is searching for Sansa and orders her to kill Jaime or face execution. Brienne refuses to make a choice and is sentenced to hang. She shouts a single word as her noose tightens in her last appearance of the novel. In A Dance with Dragons, she appears alive, but she is wounded and appears much older. She asks Jaime to help her rescue Sansa from Sandor Clegane, but he must come alone or Sandor will kill Sansa. However, as of A Dance with Dragons, Sansa is hiding in the Vale and Sandor has been reported dead.
Beric Info, Beric Dondarrion is the Lord of Blackhaven. He is described as a gallant young lord with great fighting skill. In A Game of Thrones, Eddard Stark sends him to arrest Gregor Clegane and bring peace to the Riverlands. He is ambushed and killed by Lannister forces. His companion Thoros of Myr accidentally revives him with magic during the funeral service. By A Storm of Swords, he and his men have formed an outlaw band called the Brotherhood Without Banners. The Brotherhood starts a guerrilla war against raiders in the Riverlands. The success of these ambushes earns him the nickname the Lightning Lord, also reference to his coat of arms. He is killed and resurrected six times. With each revival, he loses more of his memories and his appearance becomes more corpse-like. In the third book, he and his men find the corpse of Catelyn Stark several days after the Red Wedding. He resurrects her with the last of his life force and dies for the seventh and final time.
Balon Info, Balon Greyjoy is the Lord of the Iron Islands, King of Salt and Rock, Son of the Sea Wind, and Lord Reaper of Pyke. He is a harsh and fierce man devoted, in most respects, to Ironborn custom, though he sees his daughter Asha as his successor when custom dictates a woman cannot lead. Ten years before A Song of Ice and Fire, he led a rebellion against King Robert Baratheon. The rebellion failed and his youngest son Theon Greyjoy was taken as a political hostage and raised in Winterfell by Lord Eddard Stark. After Robert's death, Balon spurns Robb Stark's offer of an alliance in a Clash of Kings and declares himself King of the Iron Islands and the North. He captures the Neck and ravages the coastline of the Stark-held North. He dies in A Storm of Swords after falling off a bridge during a storm. The timely return of Balon's banished brother Euron leads many characters to believe that Euron played a part in Balon's death.
Yara Info, Asha( named Yara in TV series to avoid the confusion with name Osha) Greyjoy is Balon Greyjoy's only daughter and oldest living child. She serves as the third-person narrator for four total chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. As her brother Theon became a political hostage and was taken from the Iron Islands, Asha was raised as Balon's heir despite the fact that custom dictates women cannot rule the Iron Islands. She is fierce, bold and proud, and she has defied her people's traditional gender roles by captaining her own ship and leading men into battle. When Balon orders an invasion of the North in A Clash of Kings, she captures Deepwood Motte. She returns to the Islands in A Storm of Swords after her father's death and claims her father's throne. However, the next king is to be determined through a meeting called Kingsmoot, which she refers to as her Queensmoot. She promises peace with mainland Westeros in exchange for land, and she gains more support than expected. However, her uncle Euron is named king. She refuses to accept the decision and flees the Islands. In A Dance with Dragons, she returns to Deepwood Motte and learns that Euron has married her off using a seal as a stand-in. She is eventually captured by Stannis Baratheon and travels with his army toward Winterfell. The army is halted by heavy snows and begins to starve, causing Stannis's men to demand Asha be burned and sacrificed to the god R'hllor in an attempt to stop the snow. Asha is later reunited with her brother Theon, though she does not recognize him at first.n an excerpt from the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter, Asha goes before Stannis and tries to offer a ransom for Theon, but Stannis insists that Theon must die for killing Eddard Stark's sons or all of the northmen will abandon Stannis. She convinces Stannis to execute Theon as Eddard would have: personally beheading him before a Weirwood tree and giving him to the Old Gods.
Theon Info, Theon Greyjoy is the only living son, youngest child, and heir apparent of Balon Greyjoy. He is the third-person narrator for thirteen chapters throughout A Clash of Kings and A Dance with Dragons, and he is confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter. He is arrogant, cocky, and proud, and he is known to be always smiling. Ten years before the events of the series, at the end of the failed Greyjoy rebellion, he was taken hostage by Eddard Stark to be executed if Balon displeased the king. Theon was raised at Winterfell with the Stark children and became a close friend of and almost a brother to Robb Stark. He wants to be a Stark, but he realizes that the Starks will never accept him. However, he receives only mockery and scorn from his own family. In A Game of Thrones, he fights at Robb's side when Robb rebels. He is sent to the Iron Islands in A Clash of Kings to seek a Stark alliance with the Greyjoys. However, the Greyjoys criticize Theon's northern ways and reject Robb's proposal. Theon then joins Balon's side in the war. He ignores his orders to raid the shores and captures Winterfell to prove his worth to his father. However, Bran Stark and Rickon Stark disappear, and he fails to find them. To cement his hold on Winterfell, Theon kills two common-born boys and tells Westeros that the Stark boys are dead. Because of this, the northmen dub him Theon Turncloak. His requests for aid are ignored by his family, and he is captured by Ramsay Snow shortly after. Throughout A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows, many characters receive pieces of his skin, as proof he is alive when he was previously thought to be dead. By A Dance of Dragons he has been tortured, flayed, and mutilated; it is strongly implied that he has been castrated. Traumatized, Theon is forced to assume the identity of Reek, Ramsay's serving man known for his stench. Though he fears Ramsay, he tries to reaffirm his Reek identity to please Ramsay and attempts to forget that he is Theon Greyjoy. When reminded of his true identity, he breaks down and insists Theon died. When Ramsay is betrothed to Arya Stark, Theon recognizes her as Jeyne Poole and is sympathetic to her plight, though he is unable to help her. In the days before the wedding he spends most of his time wandering around Winterfell, regretting his decision to betray Robb and hoping for a quick death. After the wedding, he begins praying to the Old Gods and is happy when he hears his name whispered, believing that the Old Gods know his name. He later helps Jeyne escape, and the pair are brought before Stannis Baratheon. In an excerpt of The Winds of Winter, he is Stannis's captive. Stannis refuses to ransom Theon to his sister Asha Greyjoy and insists that Theon must die to avenge Bran and Rickon lest he be abandoned by his northmen allies. Asha urges Stannis to kill Theon as Eddard Stark would have: by personally beheading him before a Weirwood tree and giving him to the Old Gods, instead of having him burned alive.
Elia Info, Elia Martell was the younger sister of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne and was very close to her younger brother Oberyn. She was said to have a sharp wit and frail health. She married Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, and bore him two children: a daughter Rhaenys and a son Aegon. Fifteen years before the events of the series, Rhaegar was killed in battle during Robert's rebellion and King Aerys, in his paranoia, suspected Elia's family had betrayed him. To ensure the continued support of Dorne, she and her children were confined to the royal castle in King's Landing. When the city was captured, she was raped and murdered by Gregor Clegane. Rhaenys was stabbed over fifty times, and the infant Aegon was replaced by another child and smuggled to safety. The children were supposedly murdered on Tywin Lannister's instructions to secure the throne for Robert and prove House Lannister's loyalty to the new king, but he had forgotten about Elia and did not intend for her to die. Elia's brother Oberyn, however, believed Tywin had Elia murdered to avenge the slight to his honour when Aerys had his son and heir married to Elia instead of Tywin's daughter, Cersei.
Oberyn Info, Oberyn Martell is the youngest brother of Doran Martell. He is a hot-headed, forceful, and lusty man with a quick wit and a barbed tongue. He is a formidable fighter and is called the Red Viper because it is rumored he poisons his weapons. He has traveled the world, founded a mercenary company, and briefly studied at the Citadel, which trains Maesters. He has eight illegitimate daughters, collectively known as the Sand Snakes; four of them he fathered with his paramour Ellaria Sand. He was very close to his older sister Elia, who was married to Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. When Elia was murdered by Ser Gregor Clegane, a bannerman of House Lannister, he vowed revenge. In A Storm of Swords, he goes to King's Landing to take his brother's seat on the King's council and to obtain the justice for Elia that Tyrion Lannister promised. The justice is denied, as Tyrion is arrested and accused of murdering King Joffrey Baratheon. Oberyn volunteers to champion Tyrion in the trial by combat because he knows that Gregor would be his opponent. In the battle, he wears Gregor down and forces the knight to confess to the murder of Elia and her children. After confessing, Gregor grabs him and smashes his skull, killing him. Oberyn posthumously wins vengeance, as his spear actually was poisoned with manticore venom refined to draw out the victim's suffering; Gregor dies a slow, agonizing death as a result.
Edmure Info, Edmure Tully is the third child, only son, and heir of Lord Hoster Tully. He is dutiful and wishes to earn his father's respect and protect the common people of the Riverlands. However, he is also said to have a large heart and his decisions are often rash and emotional. He takes command of the Riverlands in A Game of Thrones because of his father's illness and is taken captive by Jaime Lannister. He is rescued by his nephew Robb Stark, and upon hearing of Eddard Stark's death he leads the Riverland lords in proclaiming Robb the King in the North. In A Clash of Kings, he shelters the common people in Riverrun to protect them from Tywin Lannister's forces, despite the fact that he does not have sufficient supplies to do so. Against Robb's orders, he defeats Tywin in battle and unwittingly ruins Robb's plan to permanently defeat House Lannister. Edmure becomes Lord of Riverrun after his father's death in A Storm of Swords. As amends for thwarting Robb's plan, he agrees to marry Roslin Frey and repair the alliance with the militarily critical House Frey. However, the wedding is a trap. While Edmure retires to the bridal chamber with his new wife, men sworn to Houses Bolton and Frey slaughter the Stark men, breaching ancient guest right customs. Edmure is captured and imprisoned by the Freys. Despite these events, Edmure and Roslin have become fond of one another. In A Feast for Crows, the Freys try to force his uncle Brynden out of the Riverrun by besieging the castle and threatening to hang Edmure. Every day, Edmure stands at the gallows with a noose around his neck, only to step down when his uncle does not surrender. Jaime spares him from eventual execution but threatens to kill Roslin, then pregnant, if he does not force Brynden to yield. Edmure surrenders the castle but lets Brynden escape. Edmure is en route to Casterly Rock, where he and the remaining members of House Tully are to spend their lives in service to House Lannister. Roslin is to remain at the Twins, and the pair will be reunited after the birth of their child.
Brynden Info, Ser Brynden Tully, called the Blackfish, is the younger brother of Hoster Tully and the uncle of Catelyn Stark, Lysa Arryn, and Edmure Tully. He constantly quarreled with his brother, usually over Brynden's refusal to be married. During one encounter Hoster called him the black goat of House Tully. Brynden mused that since their sigil was fish, he was the "Blackfish" of the family. He accompanied Lysa to the Vale and was named Knight of the Gate by Jon Arryn. In A Game of Thrones, he is upset over the Vale's neutrality in the ongoing war. He resigns from his position and joins Robb Stark and his bannermen. He is appointed head of Robb's outriders and is a crucial member of the war council. His efforts win Robb several battles throughout A Clash of Kings. He is named Warden of the Southern Marches in A Storm of Swords and remains at Riverrun while Robb goes to the Twins to attend Edmure's wedding. After Robb's death, Brynden holds Riverrun in Robb's name. He is besieged by House Lannister and House Frey in A Feast for Crows. Edmure, the Lord of Riverrun, surrenders the castle, but he helps Brynden escape. His whereabouts are unknown. 
Walder Info, Walder Frey is Lord of the Twins, a castle straddling the Trident River. Called the Lord of the Crossing as the placement of his castle allows him to control who crosses the river, Frey is considered an important ally of strategic importance despite being a vain, ambitious, and untrustworthy man capable of holding grudges. Although he is elderly and suffering from gout, he maintains an active hand in running his House of which he is known for having over a hundred descendants and also equally famous having lived longer than his wives. By the start of the series, he has married his eighth wife. He emphasizes family loyalty and believes in taking care of relations, including those who disappoint him. However, his numerous heirs do not share the sentiment and viciously battle for his favor, some believing that they would turn on each other the moment Walder dies. In addition to his role in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, his four-year-old self makes a short appearance in the Tales of Dunk and Egg novella The Mystery Knight. Although he is a bannerman of House Tully, he does not immediately go to Riverrun when Edmure Tully summons his bannermen to support Robb Stark in A Game of Thrones. When the Twins became a strategic necessity for Robb, Walder is able to negotiate marriage contracts between his children and grandchildren and Robb and Arya Stark. But Robb married Jeyne Westerling in A Clash of Kings, Frey is outraged and withdraws his support from Robb to conspire with Tywin Lannister and Roose Bolton to enact his revenge. In A Storm of Swords, Walder pretends to make amends with Robb and agrees to marry his daughter Roslin to Edmure. From there, as the wedding dies down, Walder springs the trap and had Robb and his key supporters massacred during the feast, a direct violation of ancient guest right customs. He then openly swears loyalty to House Lannister and his family receives Riverrun, the seat of House Tully, as a reward. However, as revealed in A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons, House Frey paid for its patriarch's treachery as members of the family were slaughtered by outlaws or Northmen. Furthermore, with their family name now synonymous with treachery and dishonor, many of House Frey's former allies view them with open contempt. The Lannisters even consider punishing the Freys to draw attention away from their part in the slaughter. 
Mace Info, Lord Mace Tyrell is the Lord of Highgarden, Defender of the Marches, High Marshal of the Reach, and Warden of the South. He has three sons—Willas, Garlan, and Loras—and one daughter, Margaery. He is described as a prematurely old and tedious man who lacks in political savvy. His sole military accomplishment is the siege of Storm's End (which was technically a failure; Stannis Baratheon held out against Tyrell long enough for Eddard Stark to relieve the castle), and he serves only as the figurehead of a powerful house filled with more intelligent members. He dreams of his daughter becoming queen. In A Clash of Kings, he fully supports the marriage between Margaery and rebel Renly Baratheon, who plans to take the throne of the Seven Kingdoms. When Renly dies, Mace accepts an offer to marry Margaery to Joffrey Baratheon, the current king. After dealing rebel Stannis Baratheon a major defeat, Mace is named Master of Ships, the naval commander, in A Storm of Swords. He comes to covet the position of Hand of the King, the King's top adviser. After the current Hand's death, he is sent to recapture Storm's End instead. He returns to King's Landing in A Dance with Dragons when Margaery is accused of high treason and adultery. Kevan Lannister, Regent of the Seven Kingdoms, names Mace his hand, mostly to repair the relationship between their houses. Kevan comments that Mace is ill-suited to the position. 
Loras Info, Ser Loras Tyrell, nicknamed the Knight of Flowers, is the third and favorite son of Mace Tyrell. He is a young but highly skilled tourney knight and jouster. He is beloved by the crowds, and many young girls are infatuated with him. When Renly Baratheon claims himself king of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings, Loras supports him and is made head of Renly's personal guard. After Renly's assassination, Loras is enraged with grief and kills three of the guards present at Renly's death. He erroneously blames Brienne of Tarth and Catelyn Stark for Renly's death and would have killed them too if they did not flee. In A Storm of Swords, he questions Brienne and finally decides that she is not the killer. When his sister Margaery is married to Joffrey Baratheon, he joins the Kingsguard. He volunteers to join the siege of Dragonstone in A Feast for Crows so Cersei Lannister will send military assistance to defend his native Highgarden from the Greyjoys. His decisive actions cause an unnecessary bloodbath but successfully capture Dragonstone. However, Loras is horrifically burned when he is doused with boiling oil during the attack, and the maesters send word to King's Landing that he is dying. Cersei tactlessly gloats about this news to Margaery, which causes the Lannister-Tyrell alliance to crumble. While Loras's death was believed to be imminent, to the surprise of the maesters he managed to cling to life day after day and has not succumbed to his wounds by the end of A Dance with Dragons.
Margaery Info, Margaery Tyrell is the youngest child and only daughter of Mace Tyrell. She is an intelligent and shrewd young woman, and despite being only sixteen, she is manipulative and adept at political intrigue. In A Clash of Kings, she is married to rebel Renly Baratheon as a pledge of loyalty from House Tyrell. When Renly is killed, the Tyrells ally with House Lannister and she is married to King Joffrey Baratheon in A Storm of Swords. After Joffrey is poisoned at their wedding feast, she marries King Tommen Baratheon in A Feast for Crows. As Queen, Margaery tries to win the love of the people and is largely successful. She visits local markets, orders numerous dresses from local seamstresses, and makes public displays of charity. She tries to shape Tommen into a successful ruler by suggesting he ride in the sight of his subjects and sit in on his council's meetings. She also manipulates Tommen to resist the control of his mother, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister. Cersei tries to remove Margaery and the Tyrells from power by taking advantage of Margaery's claim that she is still a virgin. Cersei accuses Margaery of adultery and high treason and gathers an array of conspirators and false evidence to frame her. Margaery is arrested and imprisoned to await trial. She confronts Cersei and reveals that she knows Cersei is behind the false accusations. She also wants to remove Cersei from a position of influence, possibly by arranging for her death. Because the evidence against her is weak, she is released to the custody of a Tyrell retainer in A Dance with Dragons until the day of her trial. She chooses a trial by the judges of the Faith over a trial by combat.
Jeor Info, Jeor Mormont, called the Old Bear, is the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. He was the Lord of Bear Island in the North, but he joined the Watch to pass the title to his son Jorah Mormont. He is considered a strong, resolute leader and commands a great deal of respect. He keeps a large raven capable of speaking simple phrases as a pet. In A Game of Thrones, he chooses Jon Snow as his personal steward, intending to groom him for command.Soon after, a wight, a dead body reanimated by the Others, attempts to kill him, but Jon kills the wight.As thanks, he gives Jon the Mormont ancestral sword, Longclaw, although the hilt is changed from a bear head to a wolf head to reflect Jon's Stark heritage.To investigate the return of wights, the disappearance of several Rangers, and rumors of a wildling army, Jeor leads an expeditionary force beyond the Wall in A Clash of Kings. His force is assaulted by Others and an army of wights in A Storm of Swords, and he leads the survivors to a wildling keep. There, the men mutiny and kill him. As he dies, he tells Samwell Tarly to ask Jorah to join the Watch and asks Samwell to forgive Jorah in his place.
Samwell Info, Samwell Tarly, Sam for short, is the elder son of Lord Randyll Tarly of Horn Hill. Ten chapters throughout A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows are told from his point of view. Although he is intelligent and thoughtful, he is timid, fat, and unsure of himself. His father considers him a grave disappointment and forces him to join the Night's Watch to allow Sam's younger brother to inherit Horn Hill. He arrives at Castle Black in A Game of Thrones and is initially bullied by the other recruits and is taunted by the trainer for his cowardice. He is defended and befriended by Jon Snow, who ensures that the bullying stops. After taking his vows, Sam is made Maester Aemon's steward and is tasked with taking care of the ravens. He travels beyond the Wall in place of Aemon. Jon gives him a horn and some dragonglass he finds buried with a man of the watch's cloak. In A Storm of Swords, he slays an Other, discovering their vulnerability to obsidian, and is nicknamed Sam the Slayer. When the Watch has to choose a new commander, Sam manipulates the candidates into selecting Jon Snow. At Jon's command in A Feast for Crows, Sam travels to the Citadel with Maester Aemon and Gilly, a wildling girl. He is ordered to become a maester, who serve as healers and advisers. During the journey, he begins a short-lived relationship with Gilly, but he is ashamed because it goes against his vows as a brother of the Watch. He plans to take Gilly to Horn Hill where she and her baby will be safe. At Aemon's command, he tries to get a Maester sent to Daenerys Targaryen, and an Archmaester goes in search of her after hearing his tale. Sam remains at the Citadel to become a Maester, after which he will return to the Wall.
Ygritte Info, Ygritte is a wildling woman. She is fierce and headstrong. In wildling culture she is known as a spearwife, a woman who is also a warrior. Because her hair is red, the wildlings believe her to be "kissed by fire" and consider her lucky. Wildlings practice marriage by capture, so she is considered Jon's wife because he takes her captive upon their first meeting in A Clash of Kings. Jon initially refuses her advances throughout A Storm of Swords, but the two soon begin a sexual relationship. Jon is torn between his love for her and his duty to the Night's Watch and the realm, but ultimately, he chooses to honour his vows and abandons the wildlings to report back on their movements; Ygritte nearly kills him when he flees. Ygritte joins the wildling attack on Castle Black and is killed in the battle's closing moments, taking an arrow in the heart. Jon finds her among the dead and the dying, and Ygritte dies in his arms. Her death continues to haunt Jon. Ygritte was fond of saying "You know nothing, Jon Snow."
Petyr Baelish Info, Lord Petyr Baelish, called Littlefinger, is the Master of Coin, the Treasurer of the Seven Kingdoms. He is an ambitious man with skills in finance and Court intrigue. While initially portrayed as a minor but somewhat powerful figure, by A Feast for Crows it is revealed that many significant plot points have hinged on Baelish's schemes and intrigues. He aggravates the alliance between House Stark and House Lannister by lying to Catelyn about the ownership of the dagger used in an attempt to kill her son, betrays Eddard and helps arrest him, brokers an alliance between House Lannister and House Tyrell, reveals Olenna Redwyne's plan to marry Sansa Stark to Willas Tyrell and plots with the Tyrells to poison King Joffrey Baratheon at his wedding feast. He was also instrumental in the death of Jon Arryn, for which the Lannisters were blamed. When Lysa tries to kill Sansa in a jealous rage, Littlefinger murders her and appoints himself Lord Protector of the Vale. 
Varys Info, Varys, called the Spider, is a eunuch who serves as Master of Whisperers, the spymaster for the king of the Seven Kingdoms. He is feared by nobles and common people alike. He is described as bald and fat, and he usually affects a fawning, effeminate manner. However, he is also a master of disguise and is able to change everything about his personality and physical appearance. He knows all of the secret passages in the royal castle, and his spies, which he refers to as his little birds, are found everywhere. He claims that as a child, he was an actor in a travelling show. He says that he was castrated by a wizard who needed his genitals for a spell. Because of this, he hates magic and those who practice it. After his castration, he became known as the King of Thieves in Pentos and befriended Illyrio Mopatis. Varys's skill in spying and gathering information earned him the position of Master of Whisperers on King Aerys II Targaryen's council. From then on, he claims to work for the good of the realm. Throughout the series, he works to create a period of weakness in the Seven Kingdoms so that it is easy for the exiled House Targaryen to invade and claim the throne. However, his plans become more complicated as other characters do not do as he asks or expects. He disappears in A Feast for Crows after helping Tyrion Lannister escape and does not reappear until the end of A Dance with Dragons. He kills Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle as their competent leadership threatens the success of Aegon Targaryen's invasion of Westeros.
Pycelle Info, Pycelle is an elderly Maester, and for decades he has served many kings as Grand Maester, the personal healer and scholar of the king. Although he is intelligent and highly educated, his effectiveness as an officer of the court has been dulled by his age. He often falls asleep during meetings. In A Clash of Kings, it is revealed that he constantly betrays the king to aid House Lannister: he convinced King Aerys II Targaryen to open the gates for Tywin Lannister during a rebellion, he allowed Jon Arryn to die to keep the true parentage of Cersei Lannister's children secret, and would have killed King Robert Baratheon upon Cersei's command. Upon learning this, Tyrion Lannister has Pycelle removed from office and imprisoned. In A Storm of Swords, he is restored to his position. His imprisonment shakes his self-confidence and he is perceived as a broken man. He objects to Queen Regent Cersei's decisions throughout A Feast for Crows, and she considers replacing him. When Cersei is arrested, Pycelle seizes control of the king's council and offers Kevan Lannister the regency. Together, they begin restoring order to the Seven Kingdoms. In A Dance with Dragons, he begins to fear for his safety and requests guards. Despite this, he is killed in his chambers by Varys, who believes that Pycelle's and Kevan's competent leadership threatens Aegon VI Targaryen's chance at the throne.
Drogo Info, Drogo is a powerful khal, or warlord, of the Dothraki people, a tribal nation of expert riders and raiders in the steppes beyond the Free Cities. He is an accomplished warrior and has never been defeated in battle. In A Game of Thrones, Viserys Targaryen and Illyrio Mopatis conspire to marry Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo to get his support and warriors for the invasion of Westeros. Drogo approves of her and takes her as his wife. Despite his fearsome attitude toward his warriors, he proves to be a kind, sensitive and loving husband. After a failed attempt on the pregnant Daenerys's life, he vows to invade Westeros to reclaim the Seven Kingdoms for the Targaryens and his son. However, Viserys's impertinence ultimately causes Drogo to kill him. He raids several villages and attacks other Dothraki hordes to gather supplies for the invasion and is wounded by an enemy khal. The wound festers and Drogo falls from his horse, causing most of his warriors to abandon him. Daenerys unwittingly sacrifices their unborn son to revive him, and he becomes an unresponsive shell of his former self. She smothers him out of pity, and the flames of his funeral pyre hatch her dragon eggs. He is the namesake of her favorite dragon, the powerful, black Drogon. 
Aemon Info, Aemon is the maester at Castle Black and is one of Lord Commander Jeor Mormont's closest advisers in the Night's Watch.He was born Aemon Targaryen and is the last Targaryen in Westeros. He is the great-uncle of Daenerys Targaryen, currently in exile in Essos and unaware of his existence. Aemon's origins have long been forgotten by most, as he has remained dedicated to his vows as a Maester and a brother of the Night's Watch for decades uncounted.Aemon was born into House Targaryen. He dropped his House name when he joined the order of Maesters. Despite giving up all claims to inheritance when he took his vows, after his older brothers died some felt that the crown should pass to him. Aemon refused the throne, however, and it passed to his younger brother, who became King Aegon V. Aemon then joined the Night's Watch to remove himself from the political intrigues of the royal court. Upon hearing about the brutal death of his family in King's Landing during the rebellion, Aemon bore great sadness which has never left him.Around one hundred years old, Aemon is thought to be one of the oldest living men in Westeros, though he has retained all of his wits and his mind is still very sharp. He has served as the Maester at Castle Black for many decades.Aemon has long since gone blind due to old age. It is not clear when he went blind (he was not born blind), though he has stated that he was already old and blind during Robert's Rebellion.
Benjen Info, Benjen Stark is the youngest son of Lord Rickard Stark. Rickard was the head of House Stark and Lord Paramount of the North. The North is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Stark is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Stark rule the region from their seat of Winterfell and Rickard also held the title Lord of Winterfell.Benjen is the younger brother of Brandon, Eddard and Lyanna. Rickard, Brandon and Lyanna were all killed in the civil war known as Robert's Rebellion. Eddard inherited his father's titles and responsibilities.Benjen joined the Night's Watch, the military force which patrols the Wall and guards the northern border of the Seven Kingdoms. He earned the rank of First Ranger. Benjen is a hero to Eddard's bastard son Jon Snow.
Ellaria Info, After their arrival in King's Landing, Ellaria and her lover, Prince Oberyn Martell, head to one of Littlefinger's brothels. Oberyn examines three whores while Ellaria lies on the bed, asking her which one she would like. She says that she doesn't want a timid one and he eventually finds one to her liking. When Olyver calls Ellaria "my lady", she calls him out for using a lie to address her and tells him to call her what she is: a bastard. When Oberyn hears men singing the Rains of Castamere in the next room, Ellaria tries to stop him but can only watch as Oberyn takes out his rage on the Lannister men-at-arms.Ellaria and Oberyn attend Joffrey's wedding, where she is introduced to Tywin Lannister and Cersei Lannister. Cersei subtly mocks her bastard status, instigating a debate over the cultural differences between the Dornish and the rest of Westeros. She later witnesses the poisoning of King Joffrey.In the days following Joffrey's death, Ellaria and Oberyn again visit the brothel. On this occasion, Ellaria is serviced by Marei and another woman; Ellaria steals a kiss from Olyvar, who apologizes and says he simply hasn't developed the taste for women. Ellaria soothes Oberyn's anger at the suggestion that she is an "acquired taste", by reminding him that this means he has Olyvar to himself. Ellaria leaves when Lord Tywin unexpectedly shows up and asks to meet privately with Oberyn, but says that Oberyn need only call if he needs her.
Gendry Info, Gendry is a bastard son of King Robert Baratheon, but is unacknowledged and unaware of his lineage. Gendry did not receive the bastard surname used in the Crownlands (Waters) because he was not openly acknowledged by Robert.His mother worked in a tavern and died when he was very young. When he was old enough, an unknown lord paid his apprentice fee so he could learn to be a blacksmith. He spent his whole life in the capital city of King's Landing working as an apprentice blacksmith under his master, Tobho Mott, to forge armor and weapons for the nobility.
Jorah Info, When Jorah matured, his father Jeor Mormont joined the Night's Watch in order to give his son the lordship of House Mormont.Jorah fought in the Greyjoy Rebellion, during which he distinguished himself by showing exemplary courage on the battlefield, being one of the first men through the breach during the siege of Pyke. He received a knighthood from King Robert Baratheon. in recognition of his bravery. Illyrio Mopatis claims Jorah was anointed by the High Septon when he became a knight,but it is unknown if Jorah follows a religion.In contrast to his successful military career, Jorah has been unlucky in love. His first marriage was plagued by infertility. Jorah's wife, a member of House Glover, was unable to carry a child to term throughout their ten years of marriage, and she died after her third miscarriage.During the Tourney at Lannisport celebrating the victory over the Greyjoy rebels, he met the woman who would be his second wife: Lynesse Hightower. He was immediately smitten with her beauty, asking and receiving her permission to wear her favor in the tournament. Jorah fought remarkably well, winning an improbable victory over all challengers to name Lynesse his queen of love and beauty. That night he asked Lynesse's father, Lord Leyton Hightower, for her hand in marriage, and Leyton surprisingly agreed.Although both had married for love, the marriage did not remain happy for long. Having spent her life up to that point as part of wealthy House Hightower in the mild, prosperous and densely populated Reach, Lynesse was unprepared for life on the harsh and isolated Bear Island and quickly grew miserable. Jorah attempted to reproduce the lifestyle his wife was accustomed to by lavishing her with expensive gifts, but only succeeded in driving himself into financial ruin.Desperate to pay off his debts, Jorah resorted to breaking one of the Seven Kingdoms' oldest taboos: participating in the slave trade. When House Mormont's overlord Eddard Stark learned that Ser Jorah had sold poachers to a Tyroshi slaver, he condemned Jorah to the traditional penalty: death. However, when Lord Eddard arrived on Bear Island to execute him, Jorah had already fled.Rather than join his father in taking the black, Jorah took Lynesse along to Lys, where he attempted to make his living as a sellsword. With the relationship already strained by their exile and Jorah still unable to afford the lifestyle his wife desired, Lynesse took a lover while Jorah was fighting the Braavosi on the Rhoyne. When he returned to Lys, his wife's lover told him that he would be enslaved for his debts, if he would not give her up and leave the city. Heartbroken and exiled from his homeland, Jorah went to Volantis, where he spent the better part of a year.He remained in the Free Cities and continued to work as an unaffiliated mercenary, selling his sword to the highest bidder.
Joyeuse Info, Joyeuse Erenford was the eighth wife of Lord Walder Frey, the Lord of the Crossing.Joyeuse Erenford was 15 years old and the eighth wife of Lord Walder Frey, the Lord of the Crossing.She was a member of House Erenford a lesser house of landed knights from the Riverlands sworn to House Frey of the Twins.
Lothar Info, Although House Frey had allied with House Stark at the start of the War of the Five Kings, the Freys angrily return home when King Robb Stark marries Jeyne Westerling instead of a daughter of Lord Walder Frey.Lame Lothar is sent by his father to Riverrun with the response of the Twins concerning the reconciliation of House Stark with House Frey. There he relays the demands that Lord Edmure Tully is to marry a Frey and that the choice of the bride would be Lord Walder's. While in Riverrun Lothar also participates in the funeral of Hoster Tully as one of the seven nobles sending off his funeral boat, and tells Robb that Winterfell has been burned. Lothar returns to the Twins with King Robb Stark's acquiescence to Edmure's marriage.Although House Frey had allied with House Stark at the start of the War of the Five Kings, the Freys angrily return home when King Robb Stark marries Jeyne Westerling instead of a daughter of Lord Walder Frey.Lame Lothar is sent by his father to Riverrun with the response of the Twins concerning the reconciliation of House Stark with House Frey. There he relays the demands that Lord Edmure Tully is to marry a Frey and that the choice of the bride would be Lord Walder's. While in Riverrun Lothar also participates in the funeral of Hoster Tully as one of the seven nobles sending off his funeral boat, and tells Robb that Winterfell has been burned. Lothar returns to the Twins with King Robb Stark's acquiescence to Edmure's marriage.However, Lothar is one of the prime engineers of the Red Wedding massacre that is about to occur, and had planned many of the key details with Roose Bolton. It is Lothar's idea to use the song "The Rains of Castamere" as a signal for the slaughter to begin. According to Merrett Frey, Lothar is more dangerous than most other members of House Frey.
Lysa Info, Lysa was born into House Tully and was the second child of Lord Hoster Tully. She had an older sister, Catelyn and a younger brother, Edmure. Petyr Baelish was fostered with the Tullys and Lysa grew up with him.Lysa married Jon Arryn during Robert's Rebellion. Lord Jon was the head of House Arryn and a leader of the rebel faction fighting to overthrow the Mad King. The rebels forged an alliance with House Tully through marriage, with Lord Eddard Stark married to Catelyn and the then-elderly Jon to the still young Lysa.After the rebel victory in the war, Robert Baratheon became King and appointed Jon as his Hand. Jon served the realm well for many years as Hand of the King. Lysa and Jon have a single son, Robin Arryn. Lysa and Jon spent the next seventeen years in the capital of King's Landing, never returning to the Eyrie in the Vale of Arryn.Jon died immediately prior to the events of the series, sparking King Robert's search for a replacement. Lysa fled King's Landing for the safety of the Eyrie with Robin, then six-years old. Robin is the titular Lord Paramount of the Vale. However, Lysa will rule as the Lady Regent of the Vale until Robin comes of age. She dotes on her son. She is considered mentally unstable by Tyrion Lannister.
Maron Info, Maron was the second son of Balon Greyjoy and Alannys Harlaw. Balon is the head of House Greyjoy and the Lord Reaper of Pyke. Maron has two brothers, Rodrik - the oldest - and Theon - the youngest -, and a sister, Yara, born after Maron. Maron became his father's heir after Rodrik died in battle, and was himself by a collapsing tower during the Siege of Pyke.
Olenna Info, Olenna Tyrell is the widow of Lord Luthor Tyrell and the mother of Mace Tyrell, the current Lord of Highgarden, Warden of the South, Lord Paramount of the Reach, and head of House Tyrell. She is the grandmother of his children Loras and Margaery. She was born into House Redwyne, one of the most prominent and powerful vassals of House Tyrell.In her youth, Olenna was engaged to a member of House Targaryen, as it was "all the rage" at the time; it was her sister Viola whom Luthor Tyrell was expected to marry. The night before Luthor was to propose to Viola, Olenna snuck into his chamber and seduced him; the thought of marrying a Targaryen and his "ludicrous silver hair" did not appeal to her.Although Olenna consistently referred to Luthor as an oaf, she was genuinely fond of him, and confided to Margaery that she had some difficulty accepting his death after a hunting accident.
Robin Info, Robin was born in King's Landing where his father was serving as the Hand of the King for Robert Baratheon. Jon begins an investigation into Robert's legitimate and bastard children and then takes a fever and dies suddenly. Robin inherits Jon's position. Lysa rushes Robin back to the Eyrie following Jon's death. She writes to her sister to accuse House Lannister of poisoning Jon. Lysa was fiercely protective of Robin and he leads an extremely sheltered life.
Roslin Info, Roslin is the 19-year-old daughter of Lord Walder Frey, Lord of the Crossing. Unlike the majority of Lord Walder's brood, Roslin is quite beautiful. She was intended to marry King Robb Stark as part of an alliance between her father and him (Walder had given Robb a choice of any one of his many daughters or granddaughters, but Roslin would have been the obvious choice), but Robb fell in love with and married Talisa Maegyr instead.
Selyse Info, Selyse is the wife of Stannis Baratheon, the Lord of Dragonstone and claimant to the Iron Throne. She was born into House Florent of Brightwater Keep, a noble house of the Reach and bannermen of House Tyrell.Selyse and Stannis have a single daughter, Princess Shireen Baratheon. The rest of Selyse and Stannis' offspring, Petyr, Tommard, and Edric, were all stillborn. She keeps their bodies in crystal containers filled with chemicals in her chambers.
Shae Info, Shae is a young woman of mystery, as she won't divulge her true origins. She has a Lorathi accent and is obviously not native to Westeros: she says she arrived there ten years ago. She is first encountered as a camp-follower with the Lannister army in the Riverlands. She has dreams of wealth and power, despite her low social status as a kept woman. She hails from the Free City of Lorath.Shae is a prostitute who has begun an exclusive relationship with Tyrion Lannister during the time when he was fighting with his father, Tywin Lannister's army during the Battle of the Green Fork. When he is sent to King's Landing to be acting Hand of the King, he takes Shae with him as his mistress and she lives with him at the Tower of the Hand. The only person who knows she is there is Varys the Master of Whisperers, who while not completely trusted was an advisor to Tyrion and did seem to keep their secret.When Shae is bored, Tyrion arranged for her to work as a handmaiden to Sansa Stark, where she acts as confidant through the difficulties of Joffrey's abuse and the siege of Stannis Baratheon. Queen Cersei is threatening Tyrion and his fear for Shae's safety makes him realize how much he has come to love her. After the Battle of the Blackwater with Tyrion injured and no longer Hand of the King, she urges him to flee with her to Pentos. When he tells her his place is here, she agrees to stay with him. However, their relationship comes under strain when Tyrion is forcibly married to Sansa, inciting Shae's jealousy despite Sansa and Tyrion never consummating their marriage.Fearing for her safety, Tyrion eventually sends her away, insulting her in the process. However, she's intercepted before leaving the capital and gives testimony against Tyrion, whom she considers has betrayed her to remain with Sansa, in his trial for the assassination of King Joffrey.
Shireen Info, Shireen is the daughter of Stannis and Selyse Baratheon. Her father is the head of House Baratheon of Dragonstone and has declared himself King on the Iron Throne. Shireen is Stannis's only child and the heir presumptive. She is the same age as Arya Stark. She had three older brothers, who were stillborn.The left side of her face is scarred by Greyscale.Shireen was not born a princess, but was born into a powerful noble family. She only recently became a princess, after her father declared himself king upon her uncle King Robert's death.
Stannis Info, Stannis Baratheon is the Lord of Dragonstone and the older of the two younger brothers of the late King Robert Baratheon, the youngest being Renly Baratheon. Because of the revelation that Robert's heir Joffrey is not actually Robert's son, but a bastard born out of incest between Queen Cersei Lannister and her own brother Jaime Lannister, Stannis has claimed the Iron Throne and proclaimed himself the rightful King. As Robert had no trueborn children, only bastards, Stannis is indeed his lawful heir; however, he is currently in no position to take the Iron Throne.  The majority of his battlefleet and army were destroyed at the Battle of Blackwater, and Stannis has since withdrawn to Dragonstone, influenced by his priestess Melisandre.  Stannis fashions himself as Stannis of the House Baratheon, First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm.Stannis is the second born son of Steffon Baratheon and Cassana Baratheon, the younger brother of the late King Robert Baratheon and older brother of Renly Baratheon. Steffon was the head of House Baratheon and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. The Stormlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Baratheon is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Steffon died when the boys were young and Robert inherited his titles. Stannis is a serious and severe man.Robert led a rebellion against King Aerys II Targaryen, deposing and replacing him as the ruler of the Seven Kingdoms. Stannis fought for Robert during the war. He was besieged at Storm's End for much of the conflict. He was rescued from starvation by the smuggler Davos, who brought a ship full of onions into the castle. Stannis knighted Davos as a reward but also punished him for his smuggling by cutting four finger tips from his right hand. Davos is fiercely loyal to Stannis and saw his punishment as just. Davos's son Matthos now serves Stannis as a scribe. Stannis went on to conquer Dragonstone, the seat of House Targaryen. During the Greyjoy Rebellion, Stannis destroyed the Greyjoy fleet.Stannis and Robert never loved one another. Despite Stannis' service during the war, Robert made Renly the Lord of Storm's End following his victory. Renly was only a child during the civil war, so he did not fight. Stannis was made Prince of Dragonstone and served on his brother's small council as Master of Ships. He is the least popular of the Baratheon brothers.He married Selyse Florent. They have a loveless marriage; Stannis regards her as sickly and resents her failure to bear him a son. During the first season, Stannis is on Dragonstone for an extended stay, preferring the solitude of the island.He has converted to the Lord of Light under the influence of the priestess Melisandre. His household have largely followed his conversion. He has adopted the flaming red heart of the Lord of Light with the stag of Baratheon in the middle as his sigil.
Talisa Info, Talisa was a noblewoman from the Free City of Volantis, the oldest and largest of the Free Cities.When Talisa was 12, her parents went to a wedding lasting several days, leaving her with her younger brother. The second day they were gone, it was the hottest day in Volantis, so she and her brother joined the other children to go for a swim in the River Rhoyne. While she was talking with a friend, she noticed that her brother was missing. Eventually, she found him floating face down in the water. Talisa and her friend pulled him to the shore but he was dead. Suddenly, a man with a tattoo of a fish on his face came and pushed her away. Had she reported him, it would have meant death for the slave to touch a noble. The slave kept on pushing on her brother's chest again and again until he was revived. As the slave cradled her brother and calmed him down, Talisa was inspired by the slave's selfless act. She decided two things right there and then: first, that when she came of age, she would not waste her years dancing with other nobles, and second that she would never live in a place where slavery was legal again. To this end, she sought and obtained medical training (rather than dancing with other nobles) and relocated to Westeros (slavery being outlawed in the Seven Kingdoms).
Tyrion Info,  Tyrion Lannister is the youngest son of Lord Tywin Lannister, and uses his wit and intellect to overcome the prejudice he faces as a dwarf. He is falsely accused of the attempted assassination of Bran Stark and taken captive. His imprisonment by Catelyn Stark, even though he is eventually released after a trial by combat, causes the House Lannister to attack the Riverlands and triggers a conflict, which is then escalated into full war by the death of Robert Baratheon and arrest and execution of Eddard Stark. Tyrion rejoins the army of Tywin Lannister, and is shortly after sent by his father as acting Hand of the King to his newly crowned nephew Joffrey Baratheon, hoping he will rein him in. With him he takes a prostitute named Shae who he makes his mistress and comes to love her. Under difficult conditions, Tyrion Lannister holds the city together, strengthens and organizes the city's defenses, and makes an alliance with House Martell. Tyrion is injured during the Battle of Blackwater and afterwards loses his position as Hand when Tywin Lannister arrives to claim it.  He remains an important player in the court, however, having been re-appointed Master of Coin and married (unwillingly) to Sansa Stark, heiress to The North.Tyrion Lannister is the youngest son of Joanna Lannister and Lord Tywin Lannister. Tywin is the head of House Lannister, the richest man in the Seven Kingdoms and Lord Paramount of the Westerlands. The Westerlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Lannister of Casterly Rock is one of the Great Houses of the realm He is the younger brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister. His mother Joanna Lannister died giving birth to him. His father and sister blame him for the death.He is a dwarf, causing him problems and persecution. His size has led him to being referred to derisively by various names, such as "the Imp" and "The Halfman". This is mitigated by his intellect and his family's wealth and power. Had an infant with dwarfism like Tyrion been born a commoner, he'd have simply been left out in the woods to die. However, Tyrion was born into a powerful noble House, and was therefore spared. Even though his father doesn't think much of him, he has had the benefits of being raised with wealth and education, and is expected to lead his life as a credit to the Lannister name.He is committed to the good of both his House and, since Cersei married King Robert Baratheon, his family's continued hold on the throne.When Tyrion was 16, he met a wheelwright's daughter named Tysha on the road, apparently the victim of an attempted rape. Whilst his brother Jaime ran off the attackers, Tyrion helped Tysha recover from the ordeal, and they became lovers. They found a drunken, wandering septon willing to marry them and briefly, they lived as husband and wife. That is, until Lord Tywin learned what had happened. Jaime confessed that he organized the incident to make his brother happy, and Tysha was actually a prostitute. As a lesson, Tywin gave Tysha to his guards, paying her a silver coin for each man and forcing Tyrion to watch. By the end, there were so many silver coins that they were running out of her hands onto the ground. Tyrion has reciprocated Tywin's hatred ever since.His two siblings have had positions of respect and responsibility since their teens. When Tyrion  turned sixteen (the age of manhood), Tywin Lannister put Tyrion in charge of the drains and cisterns at Casterly Rock. Tyrion brags that the sewage never flowed smoother to the sea.Tyrion spends a lot of time at court in King's Landing to avoid his father. He gets on well with Jaime and his niece Myrcella and nephew Tommem, but has a colder relationship with Cersei and his sadistic nephew Joffrey.He has a fondness for prostitutes and drink, but is also intelligent, cunning, and educated. He also is a kind man who would protect the innocent claiming that he loves broken things.
